<[[Bible, English, King James, According to the documentary hypothesis]]

In the [[w:documentary hypothesis|documentary hypothesis]] several portions of the [[w:torah|torah]] that are believed to have been added by [[w:Torah redactor|the redactor]] cover additional rituals and laws not explicitely specified in the 4 major sources of the Torah. Various theories exist as to whether the redactor created these laws themself, or if they are independant sources, or if they reflect a pre-existing tradition that the redactor codified.

*The instruction ordering people to actually live in tents during the '''feast of booths''' ([[w:Sukkot|Sukkot]]) - [[w:Leviticus|Leviticus]] 23:39-44
*The '''law of Heave offerings''' [[w:Book of Numbers|Numbers]] 15:17-21
*The '''law of offerings for forgivness of sin through Ignorance''' Numbers 15:22-31 (immediately followed by the [[w:Priestly source|Priestly source]] stating that a foreign man should be stoned to death for collecting sticks on the [[w:sabbath|sabbath]])
*The '''laws of Burnt offerings'''
**The '''law of Meat and Drink offerings''' Numbers 15:1-16
**The '''law of Continual Meat and Drink offerings''' Numbers 28:1-31
**The '''law of Offerings on the Feast of Trumpets'''  Numbers 29:1-40

''The numbering exists only for the ease of modern readers, and do not reflect in any way any such numbering or partitioning in the original text''

==The Feast of Booths==

{{font|size=smaller|color=#0000FF|1}} Also in the fifteenth day of the seventh month, when ye have gathered in the fruit of the land, ye shall keep a feast unto the LORD seven days: on the first day shall be a sabbath, and on the eighth day shall be a sabbath.

{{font|size=smaller|color=#0000FF|2}} And ye shall take you on the first day the boughs of goodly trees, branches of palm trees, and the boughs of thick trees, and willows of the brook; and ye shall rejoice before the LORD your God seven days.

{{font|size=smaller|color=#0000FF|3}} And ye shall keep it a feast unto the LORD seven days in the year. It shall be a statute for ever in your generations: ye shall celebrate it in the seventh month.

{{font|size=smaller|color=#0000FF|4}} Ye shall dwell in booths seven days; all that are Israelites born shall dwell in booths:

{{font|size=smaller|color=#0000FF|5}} That your generations may know that I made the children of Israel to dwell in booths, when I brought them out of the land of Egypt: I am the LORD your God.

{{font|size=smaller|color=#0000FF|6}} And Moses declared unto the children of Israel the feasts of the LORD.

==The Law of Heave offerings==

{{font|size=smaller|color=#0000FF|1}} And the LORD spake unto Moses, saying,

{{font|size=smaller|color=#0000FF|2}} Speak unto the children of Israel, and say unto them, When ye come into the land whither I bring you,

{{font|size=smaller|color=#0000FF|3}} Then it shall be, that, when ye eat of the bread of the land, ye shall offer up an heave offering unto the LORD.

{{font|size=smaller|color=#0000FF|4}} Ye shall offer up a cake of the first of your dough for an heave offering: as ye do the heave offering of the threshingfloor, so shall ye heave it.

{{font|size=smaller|color=#0000FF|5}} Of the first of your dough ye shall give unto the LORD an heave offering in your generations.

==The Law of offerings for forgivness of sin through Ignorance==

{{font|size=smaller|color=#0000FF|1}} If ye have erred, and not observed all these commandments, which the LORD hath spoken unto Moses,

{{font|size=smaller|color=#0000FF|2}} Even all that the LORD hath commanded you by the hand of Moses, from the day that the LORD commanded Moses, and henceforward among your generations;

{{font|size=smaller|color=#0000FF|3}} Then it shall be, if ought be committed by ignorance without the knowledge of the congregation, that all the congregation shall offer one young bullock for a burnt offering, for a sweet savour unto the LORD, with his meat offering, and his drink offering, according to the manner, and one kid of the goats for a sin offering.

{{font|size=smaller|color=#0000FF|4}} And the priest shall make an atonement for all the congregation of the children of Israel, and it shall be forgiven them; for it is ignorance: and they shall bring their offering, a sacrifice made by fire unto the LORD, and their sin offering before the LORD, for their ignorance:

{{font|size=smaller|color=#0000FF|5}} And it shall be forgiven all the congregation of the children of Israel, and the stranger that sojourneth among them; seeing all the people were in ignorance.

{{font|size=smaller|color=#0000FF|6}} And if any soul sin through ignorance, then he shall bring a she goat of the first year for a sin offering.

{{font|size=smaller|color=#0000FF|7}} And the priest shall make an atonement for the soul that sinneth ignorantly, when he sinneth by ignorance before the LORD, to make an atonement for him; and it shall be forgiven him.

{{font|size=smaller|color=#0000FF|8}} Ye shall have one law for him that sinneth through ignorance, both for him that is born among the children of Israel, and for the stranger that sojourneth among them.

{{font|size=smaller|color=#0000FF|9}} But the soul that doeth ought presumptuously, whether he be born in the land, or a stranger, the same reproacheth the LORD; and that soul shall be cut off from among his people.

{{font|size=smaller|color=#0000FF|10}} Because he hath despised the word of the LORD, and hath broken his commandment, that soul shall utterly be cut off; his iniquity shall be upon him.

==The Laws of Burnt Offerings==
===The Law of Meat and Drink offerings===

{{font|size=smaller|color=#0000FF|1}} And the LORD spake unto Moses, saying,

{{font|size=smaller|color=#0000FF|2}} Speak unto the children of Israel, and say unto them, When ye be come into the land of your habitations, which I give unto you,

{{font|size=smaller|color=#0000FF|3}} And will make an offering by fire unto the LORD, a burnt offering, or a sacrifice in performing a vow, or in a freewill offering, or in your solemn feasts, to make a sweet savour unto the LORD, 
:{{font|size=smaller|color=#0000FF|A}} Of the herd or of the flock:
::{{font|size=smaller|color=#0000FF|i}} Then shall he that offereth his offering unto the LORD bring a meat offering of a tenth deal of flour mingled with the fourth part of an hin of oil.
::{{font|size=smaller|color=#0000FF|ii}} And the fourth part of an hin of wine for a drink offering shalt thou prepare with the burnt offering or sacrifice, for one lamb. 
:{{font|size=smaller|color=#0000FF|B}} Or for a ram, 
::{{font|size=smaller|color=#0000FF|i}} Thou shalt prepare for a meat offering two tenth deals of flour mingled with the third part of an hin of oil. 
::{{font|size=smaller|color=#0000FF|ii}} And for a drink offering thou shalt offer the third part of an hin of wine, for a sweet savour unto the LORD. 
:{{font|size=smaller|color=#0000FF|C}} And when thou preparest a bullock for a burnt offering, or for a sacrifice in performing a vow, or peace offerings unto the LORD: 
::{{font|size=smaller|color=#0000FF|i}} Then shall he bring with a bullock a meat offering of three tenth deals of flour mingled with half an hin of oil. 
::{{font|size=smaller|color=#0000FF|ii}} And thou shalt bring for a drink offering half an hin of wine, for an offering made by fire, of a sweet savour unto the LORD.
:{{font|size=smaller|color=#0000FF|D}} Thus shall it be done for one bullock, or for one ram, or for a lamb, or a kid.
:{{font|size=smaller|color=#0000FF|E}} According to the number that ye shall prepare, so shall ye do to every one according to their number.

{{font|size=smaller|color=#0000FF|4}} All that are born of the country shall do these things after this manner, in offering an offering made by fire, of a sweet savour unto the LORD.

{{font|size=smaller|color=#0000FF|5}} And if a stranger sojourn with you, or whosoever be among you in your generations, and will offer an offering made by fire, of a sweet savour unto the LORD; as ye do, so he shall do.
:{{font|size=smaller|color=#0000FF|A}} One ordinance shall be both for you of the congregation, and also for the stranger that sojourneth with you, an ordinance for ever in your generations: 
:{{font|size=smaller|color=#0000FF|B}} As ye are, so shall the stranger be before the LORD.
:{{font|size=smaller|color=#0000FF|C}} One law and one manner shall be for you, and for the stranger that sojourneth with you.


=== The Law of Continual Meat and Drink offerings ===

{{font|size=smaller|color=#0000FF|1}} And the LORD spake unto Moses, saying,

{{font|size=smaller|color=#0000FF|2}} Command the children of Israel, and say unto them, My offering, and my bread for my sacrifices made by fire, for a sweet savour unto me, shall ye observe to offer unto me in their due season. 

{{font|size=smaller|color=#0000FF|3}} And thou shalt say unto them, This is the offering made by fire which ye shall offer unto the LORD; 
:{{font|size=smaller|color=#0000FF|A}} Two lambs of the first year without spot 
:{{font|size=smaller|color=#0000FF|B}} Day by day, for a continual burnt offering.
:{{font|size=smaller|color=#0000FF|C}} The one lamb shalt thou offer in the morning, and the other lamb shalt thou offer at even;
:{{font|size=smaller|color=#0000FF|D}} And a tenth part of an ephah of flour for a meat offering, mingled with the fourth part of an hin of beaten oil.
:{{font|size=smaller|color=#0000FF|E}} It is a continual burnt offering, which was ordained in mount Sinai for a sweet savour, a sacrifice made by fire unto the LORD.
:{{font|size=smaller|color=#0000FF|F}} And the drink offering thereof shall be the fourth part of an hin for the one lamb: 
:{{font|size=smaller|color=#0000FF|G}} In the holy place shalt thou cause the strong wine to be poured unto the LORD for a drink offering.
:{{font|size=smaller|color=#0000FF|H}} And the other lamb shalt thou offer at even: as the meat offering of the morning, and as the drink offering thereof, 
:{{font|size=smaller|color=#0000FF|H}} Thou shalt offer it, a sacrifice made by fire, of a sweet savour unto the LORD.

{{font|size=smaller|color=#0000FF|4}} And on the sabbath day:
:{{font|size=smaller|color=#0000FF|A}} Two lambs of the first year without spot,
:{{font|size=smaller|color=#0000FF|B}} And two tenth deals of flour for a meat offering, mingled with oil, 
:{{font|size=smaller|color=#0000FF|C}} And the drink offering thereof:
:{{font|size=smaller|color=#0000FF|D}} This is the burnt offering of every sabbath, beside the continual burnt offering, and his drink offering.

{{font|size=smaller|color=#0000FF|5}} And in the beginnings of your months:
:{{font|size=smaller|color=#0000FF|A}} Ye shall offer a burnt offering unto the LORD; 
:{{font|size=smaller|color=#0000FF|B}} Two young bullocks, and one ram, seven lambs of the first year without spot;
::{{font|size=smaller|color=#0000FF|i}} And three tenth deals of flour for a meat offering, mingled with oil, for one bullock; 
::{{font|size=smaller|color=#0000FF|ii}} And two tenth deals of flour for a meat offering, mingled with oil, for one ram;
::{{font|size=smaller|color=#0000FF|iiii}} And a several tenth deal of flour mingled with oil for a meat offering unto one lamb;  
:{{font|size=smaller|color=#0000FF|C}} For a burnt offering of a sweet savour, a sacrifice made by fire unto the LORD.
:{{font|size=smaller|color=#0000FF|D}} And their drink offerings shall be 
::{{font|size=smaller|color=#0000FF|i}} Half an hin of wine unto a bullock, 
::{{font|size=smaller|color=#0000FF|ii}} And the third part of an hin unto a ram, 
::{{font|size=smaller|color=#0000FF|iiii}} And a fourth part of an hin unto a lamb: 
:{{font|size=smaller|color=#0000FF|E}} This is the burnt offering of every month throughout the months of the year.
:{{font|size=smaller|color=#0000FF|F}} And one kid of the goats for a sin offering unto the LORD shall be offered, 
:{{font|size=smaller|color=#0000FF|G}} Beside the continual burnt offering, and his drink offering.

{{font|size=smaller|color=#0000FF|6}} And in the fourteenth day of the first month is the passover of the LORD.
:{{font|size=smaller|color=#0000FF|A}} And in the fifteenth day of this month is the feast: seven days shall unleavened bread be eaten.
:{{font|size=smaller|color=#0000FF|B}} In the first day:
::{{font|size=smaller|color=#0000FF|i}} Shall be an holy convocation; ye shall do no manner of servile work therein:
::{{font|size=smaller|color=#0000FF|ii}} But ye shall offer a sacrifice made by fire for a burnt offering unto the LORD; 
::{{font|size=smaller|color=#0000FF|iii}} Two young bullocks, and one ram, and seven lambs of the first year: they shall be unto you without blemish:
::{{font|size=smaller|color=#0000FF|iv}} And their meat offering shall be of flour mingled with oil: 
:::{{font|size=smaller|color=#0000FF|a}} Three tenth deals shall ye offer for a bullock, 
:::{{font|size=smaller|color=#0000FF|b}} And two tenth deals for a ram;
:::{{font|size=smaller|color=#0000FF|c}} A several tenth deal shalt thou offer for every lamb, throughout the seven lambs: 
::{{font|size=smaller|color=#0000FF|v}} And one goat for a sin offering, to make an atonement for you. 
::{{font|size=smaller|color=#0000FF|vi}} Ye shall offer these beside the burnt offering in the morning, which is for a continual burnt offering.
:{{font|size=smaller|color=#0000FF|C}} After this manner ye shall offer daily, throughout the seven days, the meat of the sacrifice made by fire, of a sweet savour unto the LORD: it shall be offered beside the continual burnt offering, and his drink offering.
:{{font|size=smaller|color=#0000FF|D}} And on the seventh day:
::{{font|size=smaller|color=#0000FF|i}} Ye shall have an holy convocation; ye shall do no servile work.

{{font|size=smaller|color=#0000FF|7}} Also in the day of the firstfruits, when ye bring a new meat offering unto the LORD, after your weeks be out, 
:{{font|size=smaller|color=#0000FF|A}} Ye shall have an holy convocation; ye shall do no servile work:
:{{font|size=smaller|color=#0000FF|B}} But ye shall offer the burnt offering for a sweet savour unto the LORD; 
:{{font|size=smaller|color=#0000FF|C}} Two young bullocks, one ram, seven lambs of the first year;
:{{font|size=smaller|color=#0000FF|D}} And their meat offering of flour mingled with oil, 
::{{font|size=smaller|color=#0000FF|i}} Three tenth deals unto one bullock, 
::{{font|size=smaller|color=#0000FF|ii}} Two tenth deals unto one ram,
::{{font|size=smaller|color=#0000FF|iii}} A several tenth deal unto one lamb, throughout the seven lambs;
:{{font|size=smaller|color=#0000FF|E}} And one kid of the goats, to make an atonement for you. 
:{{font|size=smaller|color=#0000FF|F}} Ye shall offer them beside the continual burnt offering, and his meat offering, (they shall be unto you without blemish) and their drink offerings.

===The Law of Offerings on the Feast of Trumpets ===

{{font|size=smaller|color=#0000FF|1}} And in the seventh month, on the first day of the month:
:{{font|size=smaller|color=#0000FF|A}} Ye shall have an holy convocation; ye shall do no servile work it is a day of blowing the trumpets unto you.
:{{font|size=smaller|color=#0000FF|B}} And ye shall offer a burnt offering for a sweet savour unto the LORD; 
:{{font|size=smaller|color=#0000FF|C}} One young bullock, one ram, and seven lambs of the first year without blemish:
:{{font|size=smaller|color=#0000FF|D}} And their meat offering shall be of flour mingled with oil, 
::{{font|size=smaller|color=#0000FF|i}} Three tenth deals for a bullock, 
::{{font|size=smaller|color=#0000FF|ii}} And two tenth deals for a ram,
::{{font|size=smaller|color=#0000FF|iii}} And one tenth deal for one lamb, throughout the seven lambs:
:{{font|size=smaller|color=#0000FF|E}} And one kid of the goats for a sin offering, to make an atonement for you:
:{{font|size=smaller|color=#0000FF|F}} Beside the burnt offering of the month, and his meat offering, and the daily burnt offering, and his meat offering, and their drink offerings, 
:{{font|size=smaller|color=#0000FF|G}} according unto their manner, for a sweet savour, a sacrifice made by fire unto the LORD.

{{font|size=smaller|color=#0000FF|2}} And ye shall have on the tenth day of this seventh month:
:{{font|size=smaller|color=#0000FF|A}} An holy convocation; and ye shall afflict your souls: ye shall not do any work therein
:{{font|size=smaller|color=#0000FF|B}} But ye shall offer a burnt offering unto the LORD for a sweet savour; 
:{{font|size=smaller|color=#0000FF|C}} One young bullock, one ram, and seven lambs of the first year; they shall be unto you without blemish: 
:{{font|size=smaller|color=#0000FF|D}} And their meat offering shall be of flour mingled with oil, 
::{{font|size=smaller|color=#0000FF|i}} Three tenth deals to a bullock,  
::{{font|size=smaller|color=#0000FF|ii}} And two tenth deals to one ram, 
::{{font|size=smaller|color=#0000FF|ii}} A several tenth deal for one lamb, throughout the seven lambs:
:{{font|size=smaller|color=#0000FF|E}} One kid of the goats for a sin offering; beside the sin offering of atonement, and the continual burnt offering, and the meat offering of it, and their drink offerings.
 
{{font|size=smaller|color=#0000FF|3}} And on the fifteenth day of the seventh month:
:{{font|size=smaller|color=#0000FF|A}} Ye shall have an holy convocation; ye shall do no servile work, 
:{{font|size=smaller|color=#0000FF|B}} And ye shall keep a feast unto the LORD seven days:
:{{font|size=smaller|color=#0000FF|C}} And ye shall offer a burnt offering, a sacrifice made by fire, of a sweet savour unto the LORD;
:{{font|size=smaller|color=#0000FF|D}} Thirteen young bullocks, two rams, and fourteen lambs of the first year; they shall be without blemish:
:{{font|size=smaller|color=#0000FF|E}} And their meat offering shall be of flour mingled with oil, 
::{{font|size=smaller|color=#0000FF|i}} Three tenth deals unto every bullock of the thirteen bullocks
::{{font|size=smaller|color=#0000FF|ii}} Two tenth deals to each ram of the two rams,
::{{font|size=smaller|color=#0000FF|iii}} And a several tenth deal to each lamb of the fourteen lambs: 
:{{font|size=smaller|color=#0000FF|F}} And one kid of the goats for a sin offering; beside the continual burnt offering, his meat offering, and his drink offering.

{{font|size=smaller|color=#0000FF|4}} And on the second day:
:{{font|size=smaller|color=#0000FF|A}} Ye shall offer twelve young bullocks, two rams, fourteen lambs of the first year without spot:
:{{font|size=smaller|color=#0000FF|B}} And their meat offering and their drink offerings for the bullocks, for the rams, and for the lambs, shall be according to their number, after the manner:
:{{font|size=smaller|color=#0000FF|C}} And one kid of the goats for a sin offering; beside the continual burnt offering, and the meat offering thereof, and their drink offerings.

{{font|size=smaller|color=#0000FF|5}} And on the third day:
:{{font|size=smaller|color=#0000FF|A}} Eleven bullocks, two rams, fourteen lambs of the first year without blemish;
:{{font|size=smaller|color=#0000FF|B}} And their meat offering and their drink offerings for the bullocks, for the rams, and for the lambs, shall be according to their number, after the manner:
:{{font|size=smaller|color=#0000FF|C}} And one goat for a sin offering; beside the continual burnt offering, and his meat offering, and his drink offering.

{{font|size=smaller|color=#0000FF|6}} And on the fourth day:
:{{font|size=smaller|color=#0000FF|A}} Ten bullocks, two rams, and fourteen lambs of the first year without blemish:
:{{font|size=smaller|color=#0000FF|B}} Their meat offering and their drink offerings for the bullocks, for the rams, and for the lambs, shall be according to their number, after the manner:
:{{font|size=smaller|color=#0000FF|C}} And one kid of the goats for a sin offering; beside the continual burnt offering, his meat offering, and his drink offering.

{{font|size=smaller|color=#0000FF|7}} And on the fifth day
:{{font|size=smaller|color=#0000FF|A}} Nine bullocks, two rams, and fourteen lambs of the first year without spot:
:{{font|size=smaller|color=#0000FF|B}} And their meat offering and their drink offerings for the bullocks, for the rams, and for the lambs, shall be according to their number, after the manner:
:{{font|size=smaller|color=#0000FF|C}} And one goat for a sin offering; beside the continual burnt offering, and his meat offering, and his drink offering.

{{font|size=smaller|color=#0000FF|8}} And on the sixth day:
:{{font|size=smaller|color=#0000FF|A}} Eight bullocks, two rams, and fourteen lambs of the first year without blemish:
:{{font|size=smaller|color=#0000FF|B}} And their meat offering and their drink offerings for the bullocks, for the rams, and for the lambs, shall be according to their number, after the manner:
:{{font|size=smaller|color=#0000FF|C}} And one goat for a sin offering; beside the continual burnt offering, his meat offering, and his drink offering.

{{font|size=smaller|color=#0000FF|9}} And on the seventh day:
:{{font|size=smaller|color=#0000FF|A}} Seven bullocks, two rams, and fourteen lambs of the first year without blemish:
:{{font|size=smaller|color=#0000FF|B}} And their meat offering and their drink offerings for the bullocks, for the rams, and for the lambs, shall be according to their number, after the manner:
:{{font|size=smaller|color=#0000FF|C}} And one goat for a sin offering; beside the continual burnt offering, his meat offering, and his drink offering.

{{font|size=smaller|color=#0000FF|10}} On the eighth day:
:{{font|size=smaller|color=#0000FF|A}} Ye shall have a solemn assembly: ye shall do no servile work therein:
:{{font|size=smaller|color=#0000FF|B}} But ye shall offer a burnt offering, a sacrifice made by fire, of a sweet savour unto the LORD: 
:{{font|size=smaller|color=#0000FF|C}} One bullock, one ram, seven lambs of the first year without blemish:
:{{font|size=smaller|color=#0000FF|D}} Their meat offering and their drink offerings for the bullock, for the ram, and for the lambs, shall be according to their number, after the manner:
:{{font|size=smaller|color=#0000FF|E}} And one goat for a sin offering; beside the continual burnt offering, and his meat offering, and his drink offering.

{{font|size=smaller|color=#0000FF|11}} These things ye shall do unto the LORD in your set feasts, beside your vows, and your freewill offerings, for your burnt offerings, and for your meat offerings, and for your drink offerings, and for your peace offerings. And Moses told the children of Israel according to all that the LORD commanded Moses.

[[Category:Documentary hypothesis]]