\<<a
href="Bible,_English,_King_James,_According_to_the_documentary_hypothesis"
class="wikilink"
title="Bible, English, King James, According to the documentary hypothesis">Bible,
English, King James, According to the documentary hypothesis</a>

In the <a href="w:documentary_hypothesis" class="wikilink"
title="documentary hypothesis">documentary hypothesis</a> several
portions of the
<a href="w:torah" class="wikilink" title="torah">torah</a> that are
believed to have been added by
<a href="w:Torah_redactor" class="wikilink" title="the redactor">the
redactor</a> cover additional rituals and laws not explicitely specified
in the 4 major sources of the Torah. Various theories exist as to
whether the redactor created these laws themself, or if they are
independant sources, or if they reflect a pre-existing tradition that
the redactor codified.

- The instruction ordering people to actually live in tents during the
  **feast of booths**
  (<a href="w:Sukkot" class="wikilink" title="Sukkot">Sukkot</a>) -
  <a href="w:Leviticus" class="wikilink" title="Leviticus">Leviticus</a>
  23:39-44
- The **law of Heave offerings**
  <a href="w:Book_of_Numbers" class="wikilink" title="Numbers">Numbers</a>
  15:17-21
- The **law of offerings for forgivness of sin through Ignorance**
  Numbers 15:22-31 (immediately followed by the
  <a href="w:Priestly_source" class="wikilink"
  title="Priestly source">Priestly source</a> stating that a foreign man
  should be stoned to death for collecting sticks on the
  <a href="w:sabbath" class="wikilink" title="sabbath">sabbath</a>)
- The **laws of Burnt offerings**
  - The **law of Meat and Drink offerings** Numbers 15:1-16
  - The **law of Continual Meat and Drink offerings** Numbers 28:1-31
  - The **law of Offerings on the Feast of Trumpets** Numbers 29:1-40

*The numbering exists only for the ease of modern readers, and do not
reflect in any way any such numbering or partitioning in the original
text*

## The Feast of Booths

Also in the fifteenth day of the seventh month, when ye have gathered in
the fruit of the land, ye shall keep a feast unto the LORD seven days:
on the first day shall be a sabbath, and on the eighth day shall be a
sabbath.

And ye shall take you on the first day the boughs of goodly trees,
branches of palm trees, and the boughs of thick trees, and willows of
the brook; and ye shall rejoice before the LORD your God seven days.

And ye shall keep it a feast unto the LORD seven days in the year. It
shall be a statute for ever in your generations: ye shall celebrate it
in the seventh month.

Ye shall dwell in booths seven days; all that are Israelites born shall
dwell in booths:

That your generations may know that I made the children of Israel to
dwell in booths, when I brought them out of the land of Egypt: I am the
LORD your God.

And Moses declared unto the children of Israel the feasts of the LORD.

## The Law of Heave offerings

And the LORD spake unto Moses, saying,

Speak unto the children of Israel, and say unto them, When ye come into
the land whither I bring you,

Then it shall be, that, when ye eat of the bread of the land, ye shall
offer up an heave offering unto the LORD.

Ye shall offer up a cake of the first of your dough for an heave
offering: as ye do the heave offering of the threshingfloor, so shall ye
heave it.

Of the first of your dough ye shall give unto the LORD an heave offering
in your generations.

## The Law of offerings for forgivness of sin through Ignorance

If ye have erred, and not observed all these commandments, which the
LORD hath spoken unto Moses,

Even all that the LORD hath commanded you by the hand of Moses, from the
day that the LORD commanded Moses, and henceforward among your
generations;

Then it shall be, if ought be committed by ignorance without the
knowledge of the congregation, that all the congregation shall offer one
young bullock for a burnt offering, for a sweet savour unto the LORD,
with his meat offering, and his drink offering, according to the manner,
and one kid of the goats for a sin offering.

And the priest shall make an atonement for all the congregation of the
children of Israel, and it shall be forgiven them; for it is ignorance:
and they shall bring their offering, a sacrifice made by fire unto the
LORD, and their sin offering before the LORD, for their ignorance:

And it shall be forgiven all the congregation of the children of Israel,
and the stranger that sojourneth among them; seeing all the people were
in ignorance.

And if any soul sin through ignorance, then he shall bring a she goat of
the first year for a sin offering.

And the priest shall make an atonement for the soul that sinneth
ignorantly, when he sinneth by ignorance before the LORD, to make an
atonement for him; and it shall be forgiven him.

Ye shall have one law for him that sinneth through ignorance, both for
him that is born among the children of Israel, and for the stranger that
sojourneth among them.

But the soul that doeth ought presumptuously, whether he be born in the
land, or a stranger, the same reproacheth the LORD; and that soul shall
be cut off from among his people.

Because he hath despised the word of the LORD, and hath broken his
commandment, that soul shall utterly be cut off; his iniquity shall be
upon him.

## The Laws of Burnt Offerings

### The Law of Meat and Drink offerings

And the LORD spake unto Moses, saying,

Speak unto the children of Israel, and say unto them, When ye be come
into the land of your habitations, which I give unto you,

And will make an offering by fire unto the LORD, a burnt offering, or a
sacrifice in performing a vow, or in a freewill offering, or in your
solemn feasts, to make a sweet savour unto the LORD,

  
Of the herd or of the flock:

  
Then shall he that offereth his offering unto the LORD bring a meat
offering of a tenth deal of flour mingled with the fourth part of an hin
of oil.

And the fourth part of an hin of wine for a drink offering shalt thou
prepare with the burnt offering or sacrifice, for one lamb.

Or for a ram,

  
Thou shalt prepare for a meat offering two tenth deals of flour mingled
with the third part of an hin of oil.

And for a drink offering thou shalt offer the third part of an hin of
wine, for a sweet savour unto the LORD.

And when thou preparest a bullock for a burnt offering, or for a
sacrifice in performing a vow, or peace offerings unto the LORD:

  
Then shall he bring with a bullock a meat offering of three tenth deals
of flour mingled with half an hin of oil.

And thou shalt bring for a drink offering half an hin of wine, for an
offering made by fire, of a sweet savour unto the LORD.

Thus shall it be done for one bullock, or for one ram, or for a lamb, or
a kid.

According to the number that ye shall prepare, so shall ye do to every
one according to their number.

All that are born of the country shall do these things after this
manner, in offering an offering made by fire, of a sweet savour unto the
LORD.

And if a stranger sojourn with you, or whosoever be among you in your
generations, and will offer an offering made by fire, of a sweet savour
unto the LORD; as ye do, so he shall do.

  
One ordinance shall be both for you of the congregation, and also for
the stranger that sojourneth with you, an ordinance for ever in your
generations:

As ye are, so shall the stranger be before the LORD.

One law and one manner shall be for you, and for the stranger that
sojourneth with you.

### The Law of Continual Meat and Drink offerings

And the LORD spake unto Moses, saying,

Command the children of Israel, and say unto them, My offering, and my
bread for my sacrifices made by fire, for a sweet savour unto me, shall
ye observe to offer unto me in their due season.

And thou shalt say unto them, This is the offering made by fire which ye
shall offer unto the LORD;

  
Two lambs of the first year without spot

Day by day, for a continual burnt offering.

The one lamb shalt thou offer in the morning, and the other lamb shalt
thou offer at even;

And a tenth part of an ephah of flour for a meat offering, mingled with
the fourth part of an hin of beaten oil.

It is a continual burnt offering, which was ordained in mount Sinai for
a sweet savour, a sacrifice made by fire unto the LORD.

And the drink offering thereof shall be the fourth part of an hin for
the one lamb:

In the holy place shalt thou cause the strong wine to be poured unto the
LORD for a drink offering.

And the other lamb shalt thou offer at even: as the meat offering of the
morning, and as the drink offering thereof,

Thou shalt offer it, a sacrifice made by fire, of a sweet savour unto
the LORD.

And on the sabbath day:

  
Two lambs of the first year without spot,

And two tenth deals of flour for a meat offering, mingled with oil,

And the drink offering thereof:

This is the burnt offering of every sabbath, beside the continual burnt
offering, and his drink offering.

And in the beginnings of your months:

  
Ye shall offer a burnt offering unto the LORD;

Two young bullocks, and one ram, seven lambs of the first year without
spot;

  
And three tenth deals of flour for a meat offering, mingled with oil,
for one bullock;

And two tenth deals of flour for a meat offering, mingled with oil, for
one ram;

And a several tenth deal of flour mingled with oil for a meat offering
unto one lamb;

For a burnt offering of a sweet savour, a sacrifice made by fire unto
the LORD.

And their drink offerings shall be

  
Half an hin of wine unto a bullock,

And the third part of an hin unto a ram,

And a fourth part of an hin unto a lamb:

This is the burnt offering of every month throughout the months of the
year.

And one kid of the goats for a sin offering unto the LORD shall be
offered,

Beside the continual burnt offering, and his drink offering.

And in the fourteenth day of the first month is the passover of the
LORD.

  
And in the fifteenth day of this month is the feast: seven days shall
unleavened bread be eaten.

In the first day:

  
Shall be an holy convocation; ye shall do no manner of servile work
therein:

But ye shall offer a sacrifice made by fire for a burnt offering unto
the LORD;

Two young bullocks, and one ram, and seven lambs of the first year: they
shall be unto you without blemish:

And their meat offering shall be of flour mingled with oil:

  
Three tenth deals shall ye offer for a bullock,

And two tenth deals for a ram;

A several tenth deal shalt thou offer for every lamb, throughout the
seven lambs:

And one goat for a sin offering, to make an atonement for you.

Ye shall offer these beside the burnt offering in the morning, which is
for a continual burnt offering.

After this manner ye shall offer daily, throughout the seven days, the
meat of the sacrifice made by fire, of a sweet savour unto the LORD: it
shall be offered beside the continual burnt offering, and his drink
offering.

And on the seventh day:

  
Ye shall have an holy convocation; ye shall do no servile work.

Also in the day of the firstfruits, when ye bring a new meat offering
unto the LORD, after your weeks be out,

  
Ye shall have an holy convocation; ye shall do no servile work:

But ye shall offer the burnt offering for a sweet savour unto the LORD;

Two young bullocks, one ram, seven lambs of the first year;

And their meat offering of flour mingled with oil,

  
Three tenth deals unto one bullock,

Two tenth deals unto one ram,

A several tenth deal unto one lamb, throughout the seven lambs;

And one kid of the goats, to make an atonement for you.

Ye shall offer them beside the continual burnt offering, and his meat
offering, (they shall be unto you without blemish) and their drink
offerings.

### The Law of Offerings on the Feast of Trumpets

And in the seventh month, on the first day of the month:

  
Ye shall have an holy convocation; ye shall do no servile work it is a
day of blowing the trumpets unto you.

And ye shall offer a burnt offering for a sweet savour unto the LORD;

One young bullock, one ram, and seven lambs of the first year without
blemish:

And their meat offering shall be of flour mingled with oil,

  
Three tenth deals for a bullock,

And two tenth deals for a ram,

And one tenth deal for one lamb, throughout the seven lambs:

And one kid of the goats for a sin offering, to make an atonement for
you:

Beside the burnt offering of the month, and his meat offering, and the
daily burnt offering, and his meat offering, and their drink offerings,

according unto their manner, for a sweet savour, a sacrifice made by
fire unto the LORD.

And ye shall have on the tenth day of this seventh month:

  
An holy convocation; and ye shall afflict your souls: ye shall not do
any work therein

But ye shall offer a burnt offering unto the LORD for a sweet savour;

One young bullock, one ram, and seven lambs of the first year; they
shall be unto you without blemish:

And their meat offering shall be of flour mingled with oil,

  
Three tenth deals to a bullock,

And two tenth deals to one ram,

A several tenth deal for one lamb, throughout the seven lambs:

One kid of the goats for a sin offering; beside the sin offering of
atonement, and the continual burnt offering, and the meat offering of
it, and their drink offerings.

And on the fifteenth day of the seventh month:

  
Ye shall have an holy convocation; ye shall do no servile work,

And ye shall keep a feast unto the LORD seven days:

And ye shall offer a burnt offering, a sacrifice made by fire, of a
sweet savour unto the LORD;

Thirteen young bullocks, two rams, and fourteen lambs of the first year;
they shall be without blemish:

And their meat offering shall be of flour mingled with oil,

  
Three tenth deals unto every bullock of the thirteen bullocks

Two tenth deals to each ram of the two rams,

And a several tenth deal to each lamb of the fourteen lambs:

And one kid of the goats for a sin offering; beside the continual burnt
offering, his meat offering, and his drink offering.

And on the second day:

  
Ye shall offer twelve young bullocks, two rams, fourteen lambs of the
first year without spot:

And their meat offering and their drink offerings for the bullocks, for
the rams, and for the lambs, shall be according to their number, after
the manner:

And one kid of the goats for a sin offering; beside the continual burnt
offering, and the meat offering thereof, and their drink offerings.

And on the third day:

  
Eleven bullocks, two rams, fourteen lambs of the first year without
blemish;

And their meat offering and their drink offerings for the bullocks, for
the rams, and for the lambs, shall be according to their number, after
the manner:

And one goat for a sin offering; beside the continual burnt offering,
and his meat offering, and his drink offering.

And on the fourth day:

  
Ten bullocks, two rams, and fourteen lambs of the first year without
blemish:

Their meat offering and their drink offerings for the bullocks, for the
rams, and for the lambs, shall be according to their number, after the
manner:

And one kid of the goats for a sin offering; beside the continual burnt
offering, his meat offering, and his drink offering.

And on the fifth day

  
Nine bullocks, two rams, and fourteen lambs of the first year without
spot:

And their meat offering and their drink offerings for the bullocks, for
the rams, and for the lambs, shall be according to their number, after
the manner:

And one goat for a sin offering; beside the continual burnt offering,
and his meat offering, and his drink offering.

And on the sixth day:

  
Eight bullocks, two rams, and fourteen lambs of the first year without
blemish:

And their meat offering and their drink offerings for the bullocks, for
the rams, and for the lambs, shall be according to their number, after
the manner:

And one goat for a sin offering; beside the continual burnt offering,
his meat offering, and his drink offering.

And on the seventh day:

  
Seven bullocks, two rams, and fourteen lambs of the first year without
blemish:

And their meat offering and their drink offerings for the bullocks, for
the rams, and for the lambs, shall be according to their number, after
the manner:

And one goat for a sin offering; beside the continual burnt offering,
his meat offering, and his drink offering.

On the eighth day:

  
Ye shall have a solemn assembly: ye shall do no servile work therein:

But ye shall offer a burnt offering, a sacrifice made by fire, of a
sweet savour unto the LORD:

One bullock, one ram, seven lambs of the first year without blemish:

Their meat offering and their drink offerings for the bullock, for the
ram, and for the lambs, shall be according to their number, after the
manner:

And one goat for a sin offering; beside the continual burnt offering,
and his meat offering, and his drink offering.

These things ye shall do unto the LORD in your set feasts, beside your
vows, and your freewill offerings, for your burnt offerings, and for
your meat offerings, and for your drink offerings, and for your peace
offerings. And Moses told the children of Israel according to all that
the LORD commanded Moses.

<a href="Category:Documentary_hypothesis" class="wikilink"
title="Category:Documentary hypothesis">Category:Documentary
hypothesis</a>
