\<<a
href="Bible,_English,_King_James,_According_to_the_documentary_hypothesis"
class="wikilink"
title="Bible, English, King James, According to the documentary hypothesis">Bible,
English, King James, According to the documentary hypothesis</a> \| <a
href="Bible,_English,_King_James,_Documentary_Hypothesis,_Priestly_source"
class="wikilink" title="Priestly source">Priestly source</a>

According to the <a href="w:documentary_hypothesis" class="wikilink"
title="documentary hypothesis">documentary hypothesis</a>, the
<a href="w:torah" class="wikilink" title="torah">torah</a> was redacted
together from a number of earlier source texts. The largest of these is
referred to as the "<a href="w:Priestly_source" class="wikilink"
title="Priestly source">Priestly source</a>", due to its concentration
on details which would be of interest to the
<a href="w:Aaron" class="wikilink" title="Aaron">Aaronid</a> priesthood.

The reconstructed text of this source contains several elements which
are separable from the narrative, including several laws, and
descriptions of how rituals should be carried out. It is sometimes
believed that these were originally separate documents held as priestly
records. One of these separable elements is the list of altar
dedications (expressed somewhat repetitively at
<a href="w:Book_of_Numbers" class="wikilink" title="Numbers">Numbers</a>
7):

*The text is based on numbers 7, but does not reproduce it, instead
presenting a simplified version containing the same information*

## List of Altar Dedications

The princes of Israel, heads of the house of their fathers,

Who were the princes of the tribes, and were over them that were
numbered, offered:

And they brought their offering before the tabernacle: six covered
wagons, and twelve oxen;

  
A wagon for two of the princes, and for each one an ox:

And Moses took the wagons and the oxen, and gave them unto the Levites.

Two wagons and four oxen he gave unto the sons of Gershon, according to
their service, under the hand of Ithamar the son of Aaron the priest.

And four wagons and eight oxen he gave unto the sons of Merari,
according unto their service, under the hand of Ithamar the son of Aaron
the priest.

But unto the sons of Kohath he gave none: because the service of the
sanctuary belonging unto them was that they should bear upon their
shoulders.

And the princes offered for dedicating of the altar in the day that it
was anointed, even the princes offered their offering before the altar.

Each prince on his day, offered their offering, for the dedicating of
the altar.

  
And he that offered his offering the first day was Nahshon the son of
Amminadab, of the tribe of Judah:

<!-- -->

  
On the second day Nethaneel the son of Zuar, prince of Issachar, did
offer:

<!-- -->

  
On the third day Eliab the son of Helon, prince of the children of
Zebulun, did offer:

<!-- -->

  
On the fourth day Elizur the son of Shedeur, prince of the children of
Reuben, did offer:

<!-- -->

  
On the fifth day Shelumiel the son of Zurishaddai, prince of the
children of Simeon, did offer:

<!-- -->

  
On the sixth day Eliasaph the son of Deuel, prince of the children of
Gad, offered:

<!-- -->

  
On the seventh day Elishama the son of Ammihud, prince of the children
of Ephraim, offered:

<!-- -->

  
On the eighth day offered Gamaliel the son of Pedahzur, prince of the
children of Manasseh:

<!-- -->

  
On the ninth day Abidan the son of Gideoni, prince of the children of
Benjamin, offered:

<!-- -->

  
On the tenth day Ahiezer the son of Ammishaddai, prince of the children
of Dan, offered:

<!-- -->

  
On the eleventh day Pagiel the son of Ocran, prince of the children of
Asher, offered:

<!-- -->

  
On the twelfth day Ahira the son of Enan, prince of the children of
Naphtali, offered:

And on their day, each prince offered:

  
One silver charger, the weight thereof was an hundred and thirty
shekels,

<!-- -->

  
One silver bowl of seventy shekels, after the shekel of the sanctuary;

<!-- -->

  
Both of them full of fine flour mingled with oil for a meat offering:

<!-- -->

  
One spoon of gold of ten shekels, full of incense:

<!-- -->

  
One young bullock, one ram, one lamb of the first year, for a burnt
offering:

<!-- -->

  
One kid of the goats for a sin offering:

<!-- -->

  
And for a sacrifice of peace offerings, two oxen, five rams, five he
goats, five lambs of the first year: .

<!-- -->

  
This was the offering of each prince: like unto the same.

This was the dedication of the altar, in the day when it was anointed,
by the princes of Israel:

  
Twelve chargers of silver, twelve silver bowls, twelve spoons of gold:

<!-- -->

  
Each charger of silver weighing an hundred and thirty shekels, each bowl
seventy:

<!-- -->

  
All the silver vessels weighed two thousand and four hundred shekels,
after the shekel of the sanctuary:

<!-- -->

  
The golden spoons were twelve, full of incense, weighing ten shekels
apiece, after the shekel of the sanctuary:

<!-- -->

  
All the gold of the spoons was an hundred and twenty shekels.

<!-- -->

  
All the oxen for the burnt offering were twelve bullocks, the rams
twelve, the lambs of the first year twelve, with their meat offering:

<!-- -->

  
And the kids of the goats for sin offering twelve.

<!-- -->

  
And all the oxen for the sacrifice of the peace offerings were twenty
and four bullocks, the rams sixty, the he goats sixty, the lambs of the
first year sixty.

<!-- -->

  
This was the dedication of the altar, after that it was anointed.

<a href="Category:Documentary_hypothesis" class="wikilink"
title="Category:Documentary hypothesis">Category:Documentary
hypothesis</a>
