\<<a
href="Bible,_English,_King_James,_According_to_the_documentary_hypothesis"
class="wikilink"
title="Bible, English, King James, According to the documentary hypothesis">Bible,
English, King James, According to the documentary hypothesis</a>

The <a href="w:Book_of_generations" class="wikilink"
title="Book of generations">Book of generations</a> is a text
reconstructed by joining together small scattered parts of the
<a href="w:torah" class="wikilink" title="torah">torah</a>, mostly from
<a href="w:Genesis" class="wikilink" title="Genesis">Genesis</a>, but
one or two components from
<a href="w:Exodus" class="wikilink" title="Exodus">Exodus</a>. In the
<a href="w:documentary_hypothesis" class="wikilink"
title="documentary hypothesis">documentary hypothesis</a>, it is
believed to have been used by the
<a href="w:Torah_redactor" class="wikilink"
title="redactor">redactor</a> of the torah, to cover the joins between
the redactor's main source texts.

*The numbering and sections exist only for the ease of modern readers,
and do not reflect in any way any such numbering or partitioning in the
original text*

## Part 1 - Adam

These are the generations of the heavens and of the earth when they were
created

This is the book of the generations of Adam. In the day that God created
man, in the likeness of God made he him;

Male and female created he them; and blessed them, and called their name
Adam, in the day when they were created.

And Adam lived an hundred and thirty years, and begat a son in his own
likeness, after his image; and called his name Seth:

And the days of Adam after he had begotten Seth were eight hundred
years: and he begat sons and daughters:

And all the days that Adam lived were nine hundred and thirty years: and
he died.

## Part 2 - Seth and descendents

And Seth lived an hundred and five years, and begat Enos:

And Seth lived after he begat Enos eight hundred and seven years, and
begat sons and daughters:

And all the days of Seth were nine hundred and twelve years: and he
died.

And Enos lived ninety years, and begat Cainan:

And Enos lived after he begat Cainan eight hundred and fifteen years,
and begat sons and daughters:

And all the days of Enos were nine hundred and five years: and he died.

And Cainan lived seventy years, and begat Mahalaleel:

And Cainan lived after he begat Mahalaleel eight hundred and forty
years, and begat sons and daughters:

And all the days of Cainan were nine hundred and ten years: and he died.

And Mahalaleel lived sixty and five years, and begat Jared:

And Mahalaleel lived after he begat Jared eight hundred and thirty
years, and begat sons and daughters:

And all the days of Mahalaleel were eight hundred ninety and five years:
and he died.

And Jared lived an hundred sixty and two years, and he begat Enoch:

And Jared lived after he begat Enoch eight hundred years, and begat sons
and daughters:

And all the days of Jared were nine hundred sixty and two years: and he
died.

## Part 3 - Enoch and descendents

And Enoch lived sixty and five years, and begat Methuselah:

And Enoch walked with God after he begat Methuselah three hundred years,
and begat sons and daughters:

And all the days of Enoch were three hundred sixty and five years:

And Enoch walked with God: and he was not; for God took him.

And Methuselah lived an hundred eighty and seven years, and begat
Lamech:

And Methuselah lived after he begat Lamech seven hundred eighty and two
years, and begat sons and daughters:

And all the days of Methuselah were nine hundred sixty and nine years:
and he died.

And Lamech lived an hundred eighty and two years, and begat a son:

And Lamech lived after he begat Noah five hundred ninety and five years,
and begat sons and daughters:

And all the days of Lamech were seven hundred seventy and seven years:
and he died.

And Noah was five hundred years old: and Noah begat Shem, Ham, and
Japheth.

And Noah was six hundred years old when the flood of waters was upon the
earth.

And Noah lived after the flood three hundred and fifty years.

And all the days of Noah were nine hundred and fifty years: and he died.

Now these are the generations of the sons of Noah, Shem, Ham, and
Japheth:

## Part 4 - Shem and descendents

These are the generations of Shem: Shem was an hundred years old, and
begat Arphaxad two years after the flood:

And Shem lived after he begat Arphaxad five hundred years, and begat
sons and daughters.

And Arphaxad lived five and thirty years, and begat Salah:

And Arphaxad lived after he begat Salah four hundred and three years,
and begat sons and daughters.

And Salah lived thirty years, and begat Eber:

And Salah lived after he begat Eber four hundred and three years, and
begat sons and daughters.

And Eber lived four and thirty years, and begat Peleg:

And Eber lived after he begat Peleg four hundred and thirty years, and
begat sons and daughters.

And Peleg lived thirty years, and begat Reu:

And Peleg lived after he begat Reu two hundred and nine years, and begat
sons and daughters.

And Reu lived two and thirty years, and begat Serug:

And Reu lived after he begat Serug two hundred and seven years, and
begat sons and daughters.

And Serug lived thirty years, and begat Nahor:

And Serug lived after he begat Nahor two hundred years, and begat sons
and daughters.

And Nahor lived nine and twenty years, and begat Terah:

And Nahor lived after he begat Terah an hundred and nineteen years, and
begat sons and daughters.

And Terah lived seventy years, and begat Abram, Nahor, and Haran.

Now these are the generations of Terah:

And the days of Terah were two hundred and five years: and Terah died in
Haran.

## Part 5 - Abram and descendents

Now these are the generations of Ishmael, Abram's son, whom Hagar the
Egyptian, Sarah's handmaid, bare unto Abraham:

And these are the generations of Isaac, Abram's son: Abram begat Isaac:

And these are the generations of Esau the father of the Edomites in
mount Seir:

These are the names of Esau's sons; Eliphaz the son of Adah the wife of
Esau, Reuel the son of Bashemath the wife of Esau.

And the sons of Eliphaz were Teman, Omar, Zepho, and Gatam, and Kenaz.

And Timna was concubine to Eliphaz Esau's son; and she bare to Eliphaz
Amalek: these were the sons of Adah Esau's wife.

And these are the sons of Reuel; Nahath, and Zerah, Shammah, and Mizzah:
these were the sons of Bashemath Esau's wife.

And these were the sons of Aholibamah, the daughter of Anah the daughter
of Zibeon, Esau's wife: and she bare to Esau Jeush, and Jaalam, and
Korah.

## Part 6 - Dukes of Esau

These were dukes of the sons of Esau: the sons of Eliphaz the firstborn
son of Esau; duke Teman, duke Omar, duke Zepho, duke Kenaz,

Duke Korah, duke Gatam, and duke Amalek: these are the dukes that came
of Eliphaz in the land of Edom; these were the sons of Adah.

And these are the sons of Reuel Esau's son; duke Nahath, duke Zerah,
duke Shammah, duke Mizzah: these are the dukes that came of Reuel in the
land of Edom; these are the sons of Bashemath Esau's wife.

And these are the sons of Aholibamah Esau's wife; duke Jeush, duke
Jaalam, duke Korah: these were the dukes that came of Aholibamah the
daughter of Anah, Esau's wife.

These are the sons of Esau, who is Edom, and these are their dukes.

These are the sons of Seir the Horite, who inhabited the land; Lotan,
and Shobal, and Zibeon, and Anah,

And Dishon, and Ezer, and Dishan: these are the dukes of the Horites,
the children of Seir in the land of Edom.

And the children of Lotan were Hori and Hemam; and Lotan's sister was
Timna.

And the children of Shobal were these; Alvan, and Manahath, and Ebal,
Shepho, and Onam.

And these are the children of Zibeon; both Ajah, and Anah: this was that
Anah that found the mules in the wilderness, as he fed the asses of
Zibeon his father.

And the children of Anah were these; Dishon, and Aholibamah the daughter
of Anah.

And these are the children of Dishon; Hemdan, and Eshban, and Ithran,
and Cheran.

The children of Ezer are these; Bilhan, and Zaavan, and Akan.

The children of Dishan are these; Uz, and Aran.

These are the dukes that came of the Horites; duke Lotan, duke Shobal,
duke Zibeon, duke Anah,

Duke Dishon, duke Ezer, duke Dishan: these are the dukes that came of
Hori, among their dukes in the land of Seir.

## Part 7 - Tribes of Israel

These are the generations of Jacob.

All these are the twelve tribes of Israel: and this is it that their
father spake unto them, and blessed them; every one according to his
blessing he blessed them.

Now these are the names of the children of Israel, which came into
Egypt; every man and his household came with Jacob.

Reuben, Simeon, Levi, and Judah,

Issachar, Zebulun, and Benjamin,

Dan, and Naphtali, Gad, and Asher.

And all the souls that came out of the loins of Jacob were seventy
souls: for Joseph was in Egypt already.

The sons of Reuben the firstborn of Israel; Hanoch, and Pallu, Hezron,
and Carmi: these be the families of Reuben.

And the sons of Simeon; Jemuel, and Jamin, and Ohad, and Jachin, and
Zohar, and Shaul the son of a Canaanitish woman: these are the families
of Simeon.

And these are the names of the sons of Levi according to their
generations; Gershon, and Kohath, and Merari: and the years of the life
of Levi were an hundred thirty and seven years.

## Part 8 - Levites

The sons of Gershon; Libni, and Shimi, according to their families.

And the sons of Kohath; Amram, and Izhar, and Hebron, and Uzziel: and
the years of the life of Kohath were an hundred thirty and three years.

And the sons of Merari; Mahali and Mushi: these are the families of Levi
according to their generations.

And Amram took him Jochebed his father's sister to wife; and she bare
him Aaron and Moses: and the years of the life of Amram were an hundred
and thirty and seven years.

And the sons of Izhar; Korah, and Nepheg, and Zichri.

And the sons of Uzziel; Mishael, and Elzaphan, and Zithri.

And the sons of Korah; Assir, and Elkanah, and Abiasaph: these are the
families of the Korhites.

These also are the generations of Aaron and Moses in the day that the
LORD spake with Moses in mount Sinai.

And Aaron took him Elisheba, daughter of Amminadab, sister of Naashon,
to wife; and she bare him Nadab, and Abihu, Eleazar, and Ithamar.

And Eleazar Aaron's son took him one of the daughters of Putiel to wife;
and she bare him Phinehas: these are the heads of the fathers of the
Levites according to their families.

And Aaron the priest went up into mount Hor at the commandment of the
LORD, and died there, in the fortieth year after the children of Israel
were come out of the land of Egypt, in the first day of the fifth month.

And Aaron was an hundred and twenty and three years old when he died in
mount Hor.

<a href="Category:Documentary_hypothesis" class="wikilink"
title="Category:Documentary hypothesis">Category:Documentary
hypothesis</a>
