\<<a
href="Bible,_English,_King_James,_According_to_the_documentary_hypothesis"
class="wikilink"
title="Bible, English, King James, According to the documentary hypothesis">Bible,
English, King James, According to the documentary hypothesis</a>

According to the <a href="w:documentary_hypothesis" class="wikilink"
title="documentary hypothesis">documentary hypothesis</a>, the
<a href="w:torah" class="wikilink" title="torah">torah</a> was formed
when a <a href="w:Torah_redactor" class="wikilink"
title="certain redactor">certain redactor</a> combined three main source
texts together, one of which was itself a combination of two earlier
main sources. These four sources are known as the
<a href="w:Jahwist" class="wikilink" title="Jahwist source">Jahwist
source</a>,
<a href="w:Elohist" class="wikilink" title="Elohist source">Elohist
source</a>, <a href="w:Priestly_source" class="wikilink"
title="Priestly source">Priestly source</a>, and
<a href="w:Deuteronomist" class="wikilink"
title="Deuteronomist source">Deuteronomist source</a>. In interleaving
texts together, there are sometimes occasions when one text appears to
contradict another, and so clarification is sometimes required.

## Isaac as heir

Between the sources, several descendants of Abraham by children other
than Isaac are listed. The redactor clarifies that Isaac is the chosen
heir (Genesis 25:5-6):

  
And Abraham gave all that he had unto Isaac.

<!-- -->

  
But unto the sons of the concubines, which Abraham had, Abraham gave
gifts, and sent them away from Isaac his son, while he yet lived,
eastward, unto the east country.

## Locating Rachel

In the priestly source, Jacob finds a wife - Rachel - by going to Padan
Aram. In the other sources the location is not named, although the
Jahwist source implies it to be Haran. The Redactor clarifies this,
stating that Rachel was found in Padan Aram:

  
when he came from Padanaram

<!-- -->

  
And as for me, when I came from Padan, Rachel died by me in the land of
Canaan in the way, when yet there was but a little way to come unto
Ephrath: and I buried her there in the way of Ephrath; the same is
Bethlehem.

## Hardening the Pharaoh's heart

In both the Elohist source and the Priestly source, during the
<a href="w:Ten_Plagues" class="wikilink" title="Ten Plagues">Ten
Plagues</a>, the Pharaoh's heart is described as being "hardened", and
in the Priestly source this is described as being due to god. However,
it occurs much less frequently in the Elohist source, and it is
explained in neither source why god should do this. The redactor added
an explanation (Exodus 11:9), and adjusted the balance of references to
the Pharoah's heart hardening:

  
But I will harden his heart, that he shall not let the people go.

<!-- -->

  
And the heart of Pharaoh was hardened, neither would he let the children
of Israel go; as the LORD had spoken by Moses.

<!-- -->

  
But the LORD hardened Pharaoh's heart, so that he would not let the
children of Israel go.

<!-- -->

  
But the LORD hardened Pharaoh's heart, and he would not let them go.

<!-- -->

  
And the LORD said unto Moses, Pharaoh shall not hearken unto you; that
my wonders may be multiplied in the land of Egypt.

<!-- -->

  
And Moses and Aaron did all these wonders before Pharaoh: and the LORD
hardened Pharaoh's heart, so that he would not let the children of
Israel go out of his land.

## Passover and the firstborn

The redaction places the Priestly source's order that the passover feast
can only be for people who are circumcised next to the Elohist's order
to "sanctify the firstborn". Creating a more natural change, the
redactor adds padding (Exodus 12:50-51):

  
Thus did all the children of Israel; as the LORD commanded Moses and
Aaron, so did they.

<!-- -->

  
And it came to pass the selfsame day, that the LORD did bring the
children of Israel out of the land of Egypt by their armies.

## Crossing the red sea

In exodus, when Moses crosses the red sea, according to the Jahwist, a
strong wind blows the sea back, the Egyptians flee, and god kills them
on the shore. According to the Elohist, an Angel takes off the chariot
wheels, causing them to collapse, and throw their riders into the sea.
According to the Priestly source, the sea, which had been a wall of
water, collapses onto the Egyptians when Moses stretches out his hand.
These subtly different versions are interlaced by the redactor and
combined in a summary:

  
For the horse of Pharaoh went in with his chariots and with his horsemen
into the sea, and the LORD brought again the waters of the sea upon
them; but the children of Israel went on dry land in the midst of the
sea.

## Repeating the ten commandments

By combining the Elohist, Jahwist, and Priestly, sources, the redaction
resulted in three sets of commandments (Exodus 20:23 - 23:33, Exodus
34:2-28, and Exodus 20:2-17, respectively). Tradition requires there to
be only one distinct set of ten. While the Elohist version can be
dismissed in the redaction, as there are substantially more than ten,
and they can thus be re-interpreted as implications of one set of ten,
this still leaves two other sets. This problem is partly solved by the
Elohist tale of the in which Moses' anger causes him to smash the
tablets he had received the Elohist commandments on, as the tale can be
adjusted to imply at the tablets contained the Jahwist ten, and thus
having been smashed, another set of two need to be created, and written
upon. However, the redactor also felt that two slight additions were
necessary, in order to reinforce this:

  
like unto the first: and I will write upon these tables the words that
were in the first tables, which thou brakest.

<!-- -->

  
like unto the first

## Korah, Dathan, and Abiram

According to the documentary hypothesis, in binding together the version
of the tale of the revolt at the report of the spies in the priestly
source, with the version of the tale in the Jahwist source, it was
necessary to add a few words. The priestly source's version names the
villain as Korah, wheras the Jahwist names the villains as Dathan and
Abiram, therefore the redactor added the words "" immediately after
"Korah" is mentioned in the priestly source, at Numbers 16:24, and at
Numbers 16:27. It was also necessary to add Dathan and Abiram into the
enumeration of people who had left egypt, which is made by the priestly
source at Numbers 26, by adding the following (Numbers 26:9-11):

  
And the sons of Eliab; Nemuel, and Dathan, and Abiram. This is that
Dathan and Abiram, which were famous in the congregation, who strove
against Moses and against Aaron in the company of Korah, when they
strove against the LORD:

<!-- -->

  
And the earth opened her mouth, and swallowed them up together with
Korah, when that company died, what time the fire devoured two hundred
and fifty men: and they became a sign.

<!-- -->

  
Notwithstanding the children of Korah died not.

## Death of Moses

The deuteronomist doesn't provide a death scene for Moses as such, but
does provide a final blessing (Deuteronomy 33:2-29) he is supposed to
have made before his death. However, the Elohist describes Moses as
going to the top of a mountain to die (Deuteronomy 34:1-5). If the
Elohist death scene preceeded the final blessing, then it would imply
that the entire people of Israel had gone up the mountain with him. The
redactor chose to put the blessing before the Elohist death scene, but
also added an explanation of how Moses had sufficient foreknowledge of
his death to choose to make the speech (Deuteronomy 32:48-52):

  
And the LORD spake unto Moses that selfsame day, saying,

<!-- -->

  
Get thee up into this mountain Abarim, unto mount Nebo, which is in the
land of Moab, that is over against Jericho; and behold the land of
Canaan, which I give unto the children of Israel for a possession:

<!-- -->

  
And die in the mount whither thou goest up, and be gathered unto thy
people; as Aaron thy brother died in mount Hor, and was gathered unto
his people:

<!-- -->

  
Because ye trespassed against me among the children of Israel at the
waters of MeribahKadesh, in the wilderness of Zin; because ye sanctified
me not in the midst of the children of Israel.

<!-- -->

  
Yet thou shalt see the land before thee; but thou shalt not go thither
unto the land which I give the children of Israel.

<a href="Category:Conflict_resolution" class="wikilink"
title="Category:Conflict resolution">Category:Conflict resolution</a>
<a href="Category:Documentary_hypothesis" class="wikilink"
title="Category:Documentary hypothesis">Category:Documentary
hypothesis</a> <a href="Category:Judaism" class="wikilink"
title="Category:Judaism">Category:Judaism</a>
