<[[Bible, English, King James, According to the documentary hypothesis]] | [[Bible, English, King James, Documentary Hypothesis, Priestly source|Priestly source]]

According to the [[w:documentary hypothesis|documentary hypothesis]], the [[w:torah|torah]] was redacted together from a number of earlier source texts. The largest of these is referred to as the "[[w:Priestly source|Priestly source]]", due to its concentration on details which would be of interest to the [[w:Aaron|Aaron]]id priesthood (the [[w:Kohanim|Kohanim]]). 

The reconstructed text of this source contains several elements which are separable from the narrative, including several laws, and descriptions of how rituals should be carried out. It is sometimes believed that these were originally separate documents held as priestly records, or simple observations. One of the three extensive parts of these separable elements is the description of ritual which constitutes a very large proportion of [[w:Leviticus|Leviticus]], together with some of the later parts of [[w:Exodus|Exodus]], and some of the initial and end parts of [[w:Book of Numbers|Numbers]].

''While based on the Torah, neither the numbering or arrangement necessarily reflects the organisation or numbering of the original text. It is reconstructed here as a guide to ritual, and arranged accordingly''

== Feasts ==

=== The Sabbath ===
:''(based on Leviticus 23:3)''

{{font|size=smaller|color=#0000FF|1}} Six days shall work be done: but the seventh day is the sabbath of rest, an holy convocation; 

{{font|size=smaller|color=#0000FF|2}} Ye shall do no work therein: it is the sabbath of the LORD in all your dwellings.

=== The Feast of Passover ===
:''(based on Exodus 12:18-20, 12:16-17, and 12:43-49)''

{{font|size=smaller|color=#0000FF|1}} In the first month, on the fourteenth day of the month at even, ye shall eat unleavened bread,

{{font|size=smaller|color=#0000FF|2}} Until the one and twentieth day of the month at even. Seven days shall ye eat unleavened bread.

{{font|size=smaller|color=#0000FF|3}} Ye shall eat nothing leavened; in all your habitations shall ye eat unleavened bread.

{{font|size=smaller|color=#0000FF|4}} Even the first day ye shall put away leaven out of your houses: seven days shall there be no leaven found in your houses: 

{{font|size=smaller|color=#0000FF|5}} For whosoever eateth leavened bread from the first day until the seventh day, that soul shall be cut off from Israel.

{{font|size=smaller|color=#0000FF|6}} Whether he be a stranger, or born in the land.

{{font|size=smaller|color=#0000FF|7}} And in the first day there shall be an holy convocation, and in the seventh day there shall be an holy convocation to you; 

{{font|size=smaller|color=#0000FF|8}} No manner of work shall be done in them, save that which every man must eat, that only may be done of you.

{{font|size=smaller|color=#0000FF|9}} And ye shall observe the feast of unleavened bread; for in this selfsame day have I brought your armies out of the land of Egypt: 

{{font|size=smaller|color=#0000FF|10}} Therefore shall ye observe this day in your generations by an ordinance for ever.

{{font|size=smaller|color=#0000FF|11}} This is the ordinance of the passover: There shall no stranger eat thereof:

{{font|size=smaller|color=#0000FF|12}} But every man's servant that is bought for money, when thou hast circumcised him, then shall he eat thereof.

{{font|size=smaller|color=#0000FF|13}} A foreigner and an hired servant shall not eat thereof.

{{font|size=smaller|color=#0000FF|14}} In one house shall it be eaten; thou shalt not carry forth ought of the flesh abroad out of the house; neither shall ye break a bone thereof.

{{font|size=smaller|color=#0000FF|15}} All the congregation of Israel shall keep it.

{{font|size=smaller|color=#0000FF|16}} And when a stranger shall sojourn with thee, and will keep the passover to the LORD, let all his males be circumcised, and then let him come near and keep it; 

{{font|size=smaller|color=#0000FF|17}} And he shall be as one  that is born in the land: for no uncircumcised person shall eat thereof.

{{font|size=smaller|color=#0000FF|18}} One law shall be to him that is homeborn, and unto the stranger that sojourneth among you.

=== Yom Kippur ===
:''(based on Leviticus 25:9b and Leviticus 16:3-34)''

{{font|size=smaller|color=#0000FF|1}} In the day of atonement shall ye make the trumpet sound throughout all your land.

{{font|size=smaller|color=#0000FF|2}} To make an atonement for the children of Israel for all their sins once a year. 

{{font|size=smaller|color=#0000FF|3}} Aaron shall come into the holy place: with a young bullock for a sin offering, and a ram for a burnt offering.

{{font|size=smaller|color=#0000FF|4}} He shall put on the holy linen coat, and he shall have the linen breeches upon his flesh, 

{{font|size=smaller|color=#0000FF|5}} And shall be girded with a linen girdle, and with the linen mitre shall he be attired: 

{{font|size=smaller|color=#0000FF|6}} These are holy garments; therefore shall he wash his flesh in water, and so put them on.

{{font|size=smaller|color=#0000FF|7}} And he shall take of the congregation of the children of Israel two kids of the goats for a sin offering, and one ram for a burnt offering.

{{font|size=smaller|color=#0000FF|8}} And Aaron shall offer his bullock of the sin offering, which is for himself, and make an atonement for himself, and for his house.

{{font|size=smaller|color=#0000FF|9}} And he shall take the two goats, and present them before the LORD at the door of the tabernacle of the congregation.

{{font|size=smaller|color=#0000FF|10}} And Aaron shall cast lots upon the two goats; one lot for the LORD, and the other lot for the scapegoat.

{{font|size=smaller|color=#0000FF|11}} And Aaron shall bring the goat upon which the LORD's lot fell, and offer him for a sin offering.

{{font|size=smaller|color=#0000FF|12}} But the goat, on which the lot fell to be the scapegoat, shall be presented alive before the LORD, 

{{font|size=smaller|color=#0000FF|13}} To make an atonement with him, and to let him go for a scapegoat into the wilderness.

{{font|size=smaller|color=#0000FF|14}} And Aaron shall bring the bullock of the sin offering, which is for himself, 

{{font|size=smaller|color=#0000FF|15}} And shall make an atonement for himself, and for his house, and shall kill the bullock of the sin offering which is for himself:

{{font|size=smaller|color=#0000FF|16}} And he shall take a censer full of burning coals of fire from off the altar before the LORD, 

{{font|size=smaller|color=#0000FF|17}} And his hands full of sweet incense beaten small, and bring it within the vail:

{{font|size=smaller|color=#0000FF|18}} And he shall put the incense upon the fire before the LORD, 

{{font|size=smaller|color=#0000FF|19}} That the cloud of the incense may cover the mercy seat that is upon the testimony, that he die not:

{{font|size=smaller|color=#0000FF|20}} And he shall take of the blood of the bullock, and sprinkle it with his finger upon the mercy seat eastward; 

{{font|size=smaller|color=#0000FF|21}} And before the mercy seat shall he sprinkle of the blood with his finger seven times.

{{font|size=smaller|color=#0000FF|22}} Then shall he kill the goat of the sin offering, that is for the people, and bring his blood within the vail, 

{{font|size=smaller|color=#0000FF|23}} And do with that blood as he did with the blood of the bullock, and sprinkle it upon the mercy seat, and before the mercy seat:

{{font|size=smaller|color=#0000FF|24}} And he shall make an atonement for the holy place, 

{{font|size=smaller|color=#0000FF|25}} Because of the uncleanness of the children of Israel, and because of their transgressions in all their sins: 

{{font|size=smaller|color=#0000FF|26}} And so shall he do for the tabernacle of the congregation, that remaineth among them in the midst of their uncleanness.

{{font|size=smaller|color=#0000FF|27}} And there shall be no man in the tabernacle of the congregation when he goeth in to make an atonement in the holy place, 

{{font|size=smaller|color=#0000FF|28}} Until he come out, and have made an atonement for himself, and for his household, and for all the congregation of Israel.

{{font|size=smaller|color=#0000FF|29}} And he shall go out unto the altar that is before the LORD, and make an atonement for it; 

{{font|size=smaller|color=#0000FF|30}} And shall take of the blood of the bullock, and of the blood of the goat, and put it upon the horns of the altar round about.

{{font|size=smaller|color=#0000FF|31}} And he shall sprinkle of the blood upon it with his finger seven times, and cleanse it, and hallow it from the uncleanness of the children of Israel.

{{font|size=smaller|color=#0000FF|32}} And when he hath made an end of reconciling the holy place, and the tabernacle of the congregation, and the altar, 

{{font|size=smaller|color=#0000FF|33}} He shall bring the live goat: and Aaron shall lay both his hands upon the head of the live goat, 

{{font|size=smaller|color=#0000FF|34}} And confess over him all the iniquities of the children of Israel, and all their transgressions in all their sins, putting them upon the head of the goat, 

{{font|size=smaller|color=#0000FF|35}} And shall send him away by the hand of a fit man into the wilderness:

{{font|size=smaller|color=#0000FF|36}} And the goat shall bear upon him all their iniquities unto a land not inhabited: and he shall let go the goat in the wilderness.

{{font|size=smaller|color=#0000FF|37}} And Aaron shall come into the tabernacle of the congregation, 

{{font|size=smaller|color=#0000FF|38}} And shall put off the linen garments, which he put on when he went into the holy place, and shall leave them there:

{{font|size=smaller|color=#0000FF|39}} And he shall wash his flesh with water in the holy place, and put on his garments, and come forth, 

{{font|size=smaller|color=#0000FF|40}} And offer his burnt offering, and the burnt offering of the people, and make an atonement for himself, and for the people.

{{font|size=smaller|color=#0000FF|41}} And the fat of the sin offering shall he burn upon the altar.

{{font|size=smaller|color=#0000FF|42}} And he that let go the goat for the scapegoat shall wash his clothes, and bathe his flesh in water, and afterward come into the camp.

{{font|size=smaller|color=#0000FF|43}} And the bullock for the sin offering, and the goat for the sin offering, 

{{font|size=smaller|color=#0000FF|44}} Whose blood was brought in to make atonement in the holy place, shall one carry forth without the camp; 

{{font|size=smaller|color=#0000FF|45}} And they shall burn in the fire their skins, and their flesh, and their dung.

{{font|size=smaller|color=#0000FF|46}} And he that burneth them shall wash his clothes, and bathe his flesh in water, and afterward he shall come into the camp.

{{font|size=smaller|color=#0000FF|47}} And this shall be a statute for ever unto you: 

{{font|size=smaller|color=#0000FF|48}} That in the seventh month, on the tenth day of the month, ye shall afflict your souls, and do no work at all, 

{{font|size=smaller|color=#0000FF|49}} Whether it be one of your own country, or a stranger that sojourneth among you:

{{font|size=smaller|color=#0000FF|50}} For on that day shall the priest make an atonement for you, to cleanse you, that ye may be clean from all your sins before the LORD.

{{font|size=smaller|color=#0000FF|51}} It shall be a sabbath of rest unto you, and ye shall afflict your souls, by a statute for ever.

{{font|size=smaller|color=#0000FF|52}} And the priest, whom he shall anoint, and whom he shall consecrate to minister in the priest's office in his father's stead, 

{{font|size=smaller|color=#0000FF|53}} Shall make the atonement, and shall put on the linen clothes, even the holy garments:

{{font|size=smaller|color=#0000FF|54}} And he shall make an atonement for the holy sanctuary, and he shall make an atonement for the tabernacle of the congregation, 

{{font|size=smaller|color=#0000FF|55}} And for the altar, and he shall make an atonement for the priests, and for all the people of the congregation.

{{font|size=smaller|color=#0000FF|56}} And this shall be an everlasting statute unto you, to make an atonement for the children of Israel for all their sins once a year. 

=== Feast of Trumpets ===
:''(based on Leviticus 23:24-25)''

{{font|size=smaller|color=#0000FF|1}} In the seventh month, in the first day of the month, shall ye have a sabbath, a memorial of blowing of trumpets, an holy convocation.

{{font|size=smaller|color=#0000FF|2}} Ye shall do no servile work therein: but ye shall offer an offering made by fire unto the LORD.

=== Sukkot ===
:''(based on Leviticus 23:34-36)''

{{font|size=smaller|color=#0000FF|1}} The fifteenth day of this seventh month shall be the feast of tabernacles for seven days unto the LORD.

{{font|size=smaller|color=#0000FF|2}} On the first day shall be an holy convocation: ye shall do no servile work therein.

{{font|size=smaller|color=#0000FF|3}} Seven days ye shall offer an offering made by fire unto the LORD: 

{{font|size=smaller|color=#0000FF|4}} On the eighth day shall be an holy convocation unto you; and ye shall offer an offering made by fire unto the LORD: 

{{font|size=smaller|color=#0000FF|5}} It is a solemn assembly; and ye shall do no servile work therein.

== Offerings ==

=== Continual Burnt Offerings ===
:''(based on Exodus 29:36-42a)''

{{font|size=smaller|color=#0000FF|1}} And thou shalt offer every day a bullock for a sin offering for atonement: 

{{font|size=smaller|color=#0000FF|2}} And thou shalt cleanse the altar, when thou hast made an atonement for it, and thou shalt anoint it, to sanctify it.

{{font|size=smaller|color=#0000FF|3}} Seven days thou shalt make an atonement for the altar, and sanctify it; 

{{font|size=smaller|color=#0000FF|4}} And it shall be an altar most holy: whatsoever toucheth the altar shall be holy.

{{font|size=smaller|color=#0000FF|5}} Now this is that which thou shalt offer upon the altar; 

{{font|size=smaller|color=#0000FF|6}} Two lambs of the first year day by day continually.

{{font|size=smaller|color=#0000FF|7}} The one lamb thou shalt offer in the morning; and the other lamb thou shalt offer at even:

{{font|size=smaller|color=#0000FF|8}} And with the one lamb a tenth deal of flour mingled with the fourth part of an hin of beaten oil; 

{{font|size=smaller|color=#0000FF|9}} And the fourth part of an hin of wine for a drink offering. 

{{font|size=smaller|color=#0000FF|10}} And the other lamb thou shalt offer at even, and shalt do thereto according to the meat offering of the morning, 

{{font|size=smaller|color=#0000FF|11}} And according to the drink offering thereof, for a sweet savour, an offering made by fire unto the LORD.

{{font|size=smaller|color=#0000FF|12}} This shall be a continual burnt offering throughout your generations 

{{font|size=smaller|color=#0000FF|13}} At the door of the tabernacle of the congregation before the LORD: 

=== Burnt Offerings ===
:''(based on Leviticus 1, which is partly duplicated, as a description of it being carried out, within Leviticus 9)''

{{font|size=smaller|color=#0000FF|1}} If any man of you bring an offering unto the LORD, ye shall bring your offering of the cattle, even of the herd, and of the flock.

{{font|size=smaller|color=#0000FF|2}} If his offering be a burnt sacrifice of the herd, let him offer a male without blemish: he shall offer it of his own voluntary will at the door of the tabernacle of the congregation before the LORD.

:{{font|size=smaller|color=#0000FF|A}} And he shall put his hand upon the head of the burnt offering; 

:{{font|size=smaller|color=#0000FF|B}} And it shall be accepted for him to make atonement for him.

:{{font|size=smaller|color=#0000FF|C}} And he shall kill the bullock before the LORD: 

:{{font|size=smaller|color=#0000FF|D}} And the priests, Aaron's sons, shall bring the blood, and sprinkle the blood round about upon the altar that is by the door of the tabernacle of the congregation.

:{{font|size=smaller|color=#0000FF|E}} And he shall flay the burnt offering, and cut it into his pieces.

:{{font|size=smaller|color=#0000FF|F}} And the sons of Aaron the priest shall put fire upon the altar, and lay the wood in order upon the fire:

:{{font|size=smaller|color=#0000FF|G}} And the priests, Aaron's sons, shall lay the parts, the head, and the fat, in order upon the wood that is on the fire which is upon the altar:

:{{font|size=smaller|color=#0000FF|H}} But his inwards and his legs shall he wash in water: 

:{{font|size=smaller|color=#0000FF|I}} And the priest shall burn all on the altar, to be a burnt sacrifice, an offering made by fire, of a sweet savour unto the LORD.

{{font|size=smaller|color=#0000FF|3}} And if his offering be of the flocks, namely, of the sheep, or of the goats, for a burnt sacrifice; he shall bring it a male without blemish.

:{{font|size=smaller|color=#0000FF|A}} And he shall kill it on the side of the altar northward before the LORD: 

:{{font|size=smaller|color=#0000FF|B}} And the priests, Aaron's sons, shall sprinkle his blood round about upon the altar.

:{{font|size=smaller|color=#0000FF|C}} And he shall cut it into his pieces, with his head and his fat: and the priest shall lay them in order on the wood that is on the fire which is upon the altar:

:{{font|size=smaller|color=#0000FF|D}} But he shall wash the inwards and the legs with water: and the priest shall bring it all, 

:{{font|size=smaller|color=#0000FF|E}} And burn it upon the altar: it is a burnt sacrifice, an offering made by fire, of a sweet savour unto the LORD.

{{font|size=smaller|color=#0000FF|4}} And if the burnt sacrifice for his offering to the LORD be of fowls, then he shall bring his offering of turtledoves, or of young pigeons.

:{{font|size=smaller|color=#0000FF|A}} And the priest shall bring it unto the altar, and wring off his head, and burn it on the altar; 

:{{font|size=smaller|color=#0000FF|B}} And the blood thereof shall be wrung out at the side of the altar:

:{{font|size=smaller|color=#0000FF|C}} And he shall pluck away his crop with his feathers, and cast it beside the altar on the east part, by the place of the ashes:

:{{font|size=smaller|color=#0000FF|D}} And he shall cleave it with the wings thereof, but shall not divide it asunder: 

:{{font|size=smaller|color=#0000FF|E}} And the priest shall burn it upon the altar, upon the wood that is upon the fire: it is a burnt sacrifice, an offering made by fire, of a sweet savour unto the LORD.

=== Peace Offerings ===
:''(based on Leviticus 3, which is partly duplicated, as a description of it being carried out, within Leviticus 9)''

{{font|size=smaller|color=#0000FF|1}} And if his oblation be a sacrifice of peace offering, if he offer it of the herd; 

:{{font|size=smaller|color=#0000FF|A}} Whether it be a male or female, he shall offer it without blemish before the LORD.

:{{font|size=smaller|color=#0000FF|B}} And he shall lay his hand upon the head of his offering, and kill it at the door of the tabernacle of the congregation: 

:{{font|size=smaller|color=#0000FF|C}} And Aaron's sons the priests shall sprinkle the blood upon the altar round about.

:{{font|size=smaller|color=#0000FF|D}} And he shall offer of the sacrifice of the peace offering an offering made by fire unto the LORD; 

:{{font|size=smaller|color=#0000FF|E}} The fat that covereth the inwards, and all the fat that is upon the inwards,

:{{font|size=smaller|color=#0000FF|F}} And the two kidneys, and the fat that is on them, which is by the flanks, and the caul above the liver, with the kidneys, it shall he take away.

:{{font|size=smaller|color=#0000FF|G}} And Aaron's sons shall burn it on the altar upon the burnt sacrifice, which is upon the wood that is on the fire: 

:{{font|size=smaller|color=#0000FF|H}} It is an offering made by fire, of a sweet savour unto the LORD.

{{font|size=smaller|color=#0000FF|2}} And if his offering for a sacrifice of peace offering unto the LORD be of the flock; 

:{{font|size=smaller|color=#0000FF|A}} Male or female, he shall offer it without blemish.

:{{font|size=smaller|color=#0000FF|B}} If he offer a lamb for his offering, then shall he offer it before the LORD.

:{{font|size=smaller|color=#0000FF|C}} And he shall lay his hand upon the head of his offering, and kill it before the tabernacle of the congregation: 

:{{font|size=smaller|color=#0000FF|D}} And Aaron's sons shall sprinkle the blood thereof round about upon the altar.

:{{font|size=smaller|color=#0000FF|E}} And he shall offer of the sacrifice of the peace offering an offering made by fire unto the LORD; 

:{{font|size=smaller|color=#0000FF|F}} The fat thereof, and the whole rump, it shall he take off hard by the backbone; 

:{{font|size=smaller|color=#0000FF|G}} And the fat that covereth the inwards, and all the fat that is upon the inwards,

:{{font|size=smaller|color=#0000FF|H}} And the two kidneys, and the fat that is upon them, which is by the flanks, and the caul above the liver, with the kidneys, it shall he take away.

:{{font|size=smaller|color=#0000FF|I}} And the priest shall burn it upon the altar: it is the food of the offering made by fire unto the LORD.

{{font|size=smaller|color=#0000FF|3}} And if his offering be a goat, then he shall offer it before the LORD.

:{{font|size=smaller|color=#0000FF|A}} And he shall lay his hand upon the head of it, and kill it before the tabernacle of the congregation: 

:{{font|size=smaller|color=#0000FF|B}} And the sons of Aaron shall sprinkle the blood thereof upon the altar round about.

:{{font|size=smaller|color=#0000FF|C}} And he shall offer thereof his offering, even an offering made by fire unto the LORD; 

:{{font|size=smaller|color=#0000FF|D}} The fat that covereth the inwards, and all the fat that is upon the inwards,

:{{font|size=smaller|color=#0000FF|E}} And the two kidneys, and the fat that is upon them, which is by the flanks, and the caul above the liver, with the kidneys, it shall he take away.

:{{font|size=smaller|color=#0000FF|F}} And the priest shall burn them upon the altar: it is the food of the offering made by fire for a sweet savour: all the fat is the LORD's.

{{font|size=smaller|color=#0000FF|4}} It shall be a perpetual statute for your generations throughout all your dwellings, that ye eat neither fat nor blood.

=== Offerings for Sins of Ignorance ===
:''(based on Leviticus 4, which is partly duplicated, as a description of it being carried out, within Leviticus 9)''

{{font|size=smaller|color=#0000FF|1}} If a soul shall sin through ignorance against any of the commandments of the LORD concerning things which ought not to be done, and shall do against any of them:

:{{font|size=smaller|color=#0000FF|A}} If the priest that is anointed do sin according to the sin of the people; 

:{{font|size=smaller|color=#0000FF|B}} Then let him bring for his sin, which he hath sinned, a young bullock without blemish unto the LORD for a sin offering.

:{{font|size=smaller|color=#0000FF|C}} And he shall bring the bullock unto the door of the tabernacle of the congregation before the LORD; 

::{{font|size=smaller|color=#0000FF|i}} And shall lay his hand upon the bullock's head, and kill the bullock before the LORD.

:{{font|size=smaller|color=#0000FF|D}} And the priest that is anointed shall take of the bullock's blood, and bring it to the tabernacle of the congregation:

::{{font|size=smaller|color=#0000FF|i}} And the priest shall dip his finger in the blood, and sprinkle of the blood seven times before the LORD, before the vail of the sanctuary.

::{{font|size=smaller|color=#0000FF|ii}} And the priest shall put some of the blood upon the horns of the altar of sweet incense before the LORD, which is in the tabernacle of the congregation; 

::{{font|size=smaller|color=#0000FF|iii}} And shall pour all the blood of the bullock at the bottom of the altar of the burnt offering, which is at the door of the tabernacle of the congregation.

:{{font|size=smaller|color=#0000FF|E}} And he shall take off from it all the fat of the bullock for the sin offering; 

::{{font|size=smaller|color=#0000FF|i}} The fat that covereth the inwards, and all the fat that is upon the inwards,

::{{font|size=smaller|color=#0000FF|ii}} And the two kidneys, and the fat that is upon them, which is by the flanks, and the caul above the liver, with the kidneys, it shall he take away,

::{{font|size=smaller|color=#0000FF|iii}} As it was taken off from the bullock of the sacrifice of peace offerings: and the priest shall burn them upon the altar of the burnt offering.

:{{font|size=smaller|color=#0000FF|F}} And the skin of the bullock, and all his flesh, with his head, and with his legs, and his inwards, and his dung,

::{{font|size=smaller|color=#0000FF|i}} Even the whole bullock shall he carry forth without the camp unto a clean place, where the ashes are poured out, 

::{{font|size=smaller|color=#0000FF|ii}} And burn him on the wood with fire: where the ashes are poured out shall he be burnt.

{{font|size=smaller|color=#0000FF|2}} And if the whole congregation of Israel sin through ignorance, and the thing be hid from the eyes of the assembly, 

:{{font|size=smaller|color=#0000FF|A}} And they have done somewhat against any of the commandments of the LORD concerning things which should not be done, and are guilty;

:{{font|size=smaller|color=#0000FF|B}} When the sin, which they have sinned against it, is known, 

:{{font|size=smaller|color=#0000FF|C}} Then the congregation shall offer a young bullock for the sin, and bring him before the tabernacle of the congregation.

:{{font|size=smaller|color=#0000FF|D}} And the elders of the congregation shall lay their hands upon the head of the bullock before the LORD: and the bullock shall be killed before the LORD.

:{{font|size=smaller|color=#0000FF|E}} And the priest that is anointed shall bring of the bullock's blood to the tabernacle of the congregation:

::{{font|size=smaller|color=#0000FF|i}} And the priest shall dip his finger in some of the blood, and sprinkle it seven times before the LORD, even before the vail.

::{{font|size=smaller|color=#0000FF|ii}} And he shall put some of the blood upon the horns of the altar which is before the LORD, that is in the tabernacle of the congregation, 

::{{font|size=smaller|color=#0000FF|iii}} And shall pour out all the blood at the bottom of the altar of the burnt offering, which is at the door of the tabernacle of the congregation.

:{{font|size=smaller|color=#0000FF|F}} And he shall take all his fat from him, and burn it upon the altar.

::{{font|size=smaller|color=#0000FF|i}} And he shall do with the bullock as he did with the bullock for a sin offering, so shall he do with this: 

:{{font|size=smaller|color=#0000FF|G}} And the priest shall make an atonement for them, and it shall be forgiven them.

:{{font|size=smaller|color=#0000FF|H}} And he shall carry forth the bullock without the camp, and burn him as he burned the first bullock: it is a sin offering for the congregation.

{{font|size=smaller|color=#0000FF|3}} When a ruler hath sinned, and done somewhat through ignorance against any of the commandments of the LORD his God concerning things which should not be done, and is guilty;

:{{font|size=smaller|color=#0000FF|A}} Or if his sin, wherein he hath sinned, come to his knowledge; 

:{{font|size=smaller|color=#0000FF|B}} He shall bring his offering, a kid of the goats, a male without blemish:

:{{font|size=smaller|color=#0000FF|C}} And he shall lay his hand upon the head of the goat, and kill it in the place where they kill the burnt offering before the LORD: it is a sin offering.

:{{font|size=smaller|color=#0000FF|D}} And the priest shall take of the blood of the sin offering with his finger, and put it upon the horns of the altar of burnt offering, 

::{{font|size=smaller|color=#0000FF|i}} And shall pour out his blood at the bottom of the altar of burnt offering.

:{{font|size=smaller|color=#0000FF|E}} And he shall burn all his fat upon the altar, as the fat of the sacrifice of peace offerings: 

:{{font|size=smaller|color=#0000FF|F}} And the priest shall make an atonement for him as concerning his sin, and it shall be forgiven him.

{{font|size=smaller|color=#0000FF|4}} And if any one of the common people sin through ignorance, while he doeth somewhat against any of the commandments of the LORD concerning things which ought not to be done, and be guilty;

:{{font|size=smaller|color=#0000FF|A}} Or if his sin, which he hath sinned, come to his knowledge: 

:{{font|size=smaller|color=#0000FF|B}} Then he shall bring his offering, a kid of the goats, a female without blemish, for his sin which he hath sinned. 

::{{font|size=smaller|color=#0000FF|i}} And he shall lay his hand upon the head of the sin offering, and slay the sin offering in the place of the burnt offering.

::{{font|size=smaller|color=#0000FF|ii}} And the priest shall take of the blood thereof with his finger, and put it upon the horns of the altar of burnt offering, 

:::{{font|size=smaller|color=#0000FF|a}} And shall pour out all the blood thereof at the bottom of the altar.

::{{font|size=smaller|color=#0000FF|iii}} And he shall take away all the fat thereof, as the fat is taken away from off the sacrifice of peace offerings; 

:::{{font|size=smaller|color=#0000FF|a}} And the priest shall burn it upon the altar for a sweet savour unto the LORD; 

::{{font|size=smaller|color=#0000FF|iv}} And the priest shall make an atonement for him, and it shall be forgiven him.

:{{font|size=smaller|color=#0000FF|C}} And if he bring a lamb for a sin offering, he shall bring it a female without blemish.

::{{font|size=smaller|color=#0000FF|i}} And he shall lay his hand upon the head of the sin offering, and slay it for a sin offering in the place where they kill the burnt offering.

::{{font|size=smaller|color=#0000FF|ii}} And the priest shall take of the blood of the sin offering with his finger, and put it upon the horns of the altar of burnt offering, 

:::{{font|size=smaller|color=#0000FF|a}} And shall pour out all the blood thereof at the bottom of the altar:

::{{font|size=smaller|color=#0000FF|iii}} And he shall take away all the fat thereof, as the fat of the lamb is taken away from the sacrifice of the peace offerings; 

:::{{font|size=smaller|color=#0000FF|a}} And the priest shall burn them upon the altar, according to the offerings made by fire unto the LORD: 

::{{font|size=smaller|color=#0000FF|iv}} And the priest shall make an atonement for his sin that he hath committed, and it shall be forgiven him.

=== Offerings for Accidental Sin ===
:''(based on Leviticus 5)''

{{font|size=smaller|color=#0000FF|1}} And if a soul sin, and hear the voice of swearing, and is a witness, whether he hath seen or known of it; 

:{{font|size=smaller|color=#0000FF|A}} If he do not utter it, then he shall bear his iniquity.

:{{font|size=smaller|color=#0000FF|B}} Or if a soul touch any unclean thing, whether it be a carcase of an unclean beast, or a carcase of unclean cattle, or the carcase of unclean creeping things, 

:{{font|size=smaller|color=#0000FF|C}} And if it be hidden from him; he also shall be unclean, and guilty.

:{{font|size=smaller|color=#0000FF|D}} Or if he touch the uncleanness of man, whatsoever uncleanness it be that a man shall be defiled withal, 

:{{font|size=smaller|color=#0000FF|E}} And it be hid from him; when he knoweth of it, then he shall be guilty.

:{{font|size=smaller|color=#0000FF|F}} Or if a soul swear, pronouncing with his lips to do evil, or to do good, whatsoever it be that a man shall pronounce with an oath, 

:{{font|size=smaller|color=#0000FF|G}} And it be hid from him; when he knoweth of it, then he shall be guilty in one of these.

:{{font|size=smaller|color=#0000FF|H}} And it shall be, when he shall be guilty in one of these things, that he shall confess that he hath sinned in that thing:

{{font|size=smaller|color=#0000FF|2}} And he shall bring his trespass offering unto the LORD for his sin which he hath sinned, a female from the flock, a lamb or a kid of the goats, for a sin offering; 

:{{font|size=smaller|color=#0000FF|A}} And the priest shall make an atonement for him concerning his sin.

:{{font|size=smaller|color=#0000FF|B}} And if he be not able to bring a lamb, then he shall bring for his trespass, which he hath committed, 

::{{font|size=smaller|color=#0000FF|i}} Two turtledoves, or two young pigeons, unto the LORD; one for a sin offering, and the other for a burnt offering.

::{{font|size=smaller|color=#0000FF|ii}} And he shall bring them unto the priest, who shall offer that which is for the sin offering first, 

:::{{font|size=smaller|color=#0000FF|a}} And wring off his head from his neck, but shall not divide it asunder:

:::{{font|size=smaller|color=#0000FF|b}} And he shall sprinkle of the blood of the sin offering upon the side of the altar; 

:::{{font|size=smaller|color=#0000FF|c}} And the rest of the blood shall be wrung out at the bottom of the altar: it is a sin offering.

::{{font|size=smaller|color=#0000FF|iii}} And he shall offer the second for a burnt offering, according to the manner: 

::{{font|size=smaller|color=#0000FF|iv}} And the priest shall make an atonement for him for his sin which he hath sinned, and it shall be forgiven him.

:{{font|size=smaller|color=#0000FF|C}} But if he be not able to bring two turtledoves, or two young pigeons, 

::{{font|size=smaller|color=#0000FF|i}} Then he that sinned shall bring for his offering the tenth part of an ephah of fine flour for a sin offering; 

:::{{font|size=smaller|color=#0000FF|a}} He shall put no oil upon it, neither shall he put any frankincense thereon: for it is a sin offering.

::{{font|size=smaller|color=#0000FF|ii}} Then shall he bring it to the priest, and the priest shall take his handful of it, even a memorial thereof, 

::{{font|size=smaller|color=#0000FF|iii}} And burn it on the altar, according to the offerings made by fire unto the LORD: it is a sin offering.

::{{font|size=smaller|color=#0000FF|iv}} And the priest shall make an atonemet for him as touching his sin that he hath sinned in one of these, and it shall be forgiven him: 

::{{font|size=smaller|color=#0000FF|v}} And the remnant shall be the priest's, as a meat offering.

{{font|size=smaller|color=#0000FF|3}} If a soul commit a trespass, and sin through ignorance, in the holy things of the LORD; 

{{font|size=smaller|color=#0000FF|4}} Then he shall bring for his trespass unto the LORD a ram without blemish out of the flocks, 

:{{font|size=smaller|color=#0000FF|A}} With thy estimation by shekels of silver, after the shekel of the sanctuary, for a trespass offering.

:{{font|size=smaller|color=#0000FF|B}} And he shall make amends for the harm that he hath done in the holy thing, and shall add the fifth part thereto, and give it unto the priest: 

:{{font|size=smaller|color=#0000FF|C}} And the priest shall make an atonement for him with the ram of the trespass offering, and it shall be forgiven him.

{{font|size=smaller|color=#0000FF|5}} And if a soul sin, and commit any of these things which are forbidden to be done by the commandments of the LORD; 

:{{font|size=smaller|color=#0000FF|A}} Though he wist it not, yet is he guilty, and shall bear his iniquity.

:{{font|size=smaller|color=#0000FF|B}} And he shall bring a ram without blemish out of the flock, with thy estimation, for a trespass offering, unto the priest:

:{{font|size=smaller|color=#0000FF|C}} And the priest shall make an atonement for him concerning his ignorance wherein he erred and wist it not, and it shall be forgiven him.

:{{font|size=smaller|color=#0000FF|D}} It is a trespass offering: he hath certainly trespassed against the LORD.

=== Offerings for Deceit ===
:''(based on Leviticus 6:1-7)''
	
{{font|size=smaller|color=#0000FF|1}} If a soul sin, and commit a trespass against the LORD, 

{{font|size=smaller|color=#0000FF|2}} And lie unto his neighbour in that which was delivered him to keep, or in fellowship, 

{{font|size=smaller|color=#0000FF|3}} Or in a thing taken away by violence, or hath deceived his neighbour;

{{font|size=smaller|color=#0000FF|4}} Or have found that which was lost, and lieth concerning it, and sweareth falsely; in any of all these that a man doeth, sinning therein:

{{font|size=smaller|color=#0000FF|5}} Then it shall be, because he hath sinned, and is guilty, 

{{font|size=smaller|color=#0000FF|6}} That he shall restore that which he took violently away, or the thing which he hath deceitfully gotten, 

{{font|size=smaller|color=#0000FF|7}} Or that which was delivered him to keep, or the lost thing which he found,

{{font|size=smaller|color=#0000FF|8}} Or all that about which he hath sworn falsely; he shall even restore it in the principal, 

{{font|size=smaller|color=#0000FF|9}} And shall add the fifth part more thereto, and give it unto him to whom it appertaineth, in the day of his trespass offering.

{{font|size=smaller|color=#0000FF|10}} And he shall bring his trespass offering unto the LORD, a ram without blemish out of the flock, with thy estimation, for a trespass offering, unto the priest:

{{font|size=smaller|color=#0000FF|11}} And the priest shall make an atonement for him before the LORD: and it shall be forgiven him for any thing of all that he hath done in trespassing therein.

=== Meat Offerings ===
:''(based on Leviticus 2, which is partly duplicated, as a description of it being carried out, within Leviticus 9)''

{{font|size=smaller|color=#0000FF|1}} And when any will offer a meat offering unto the LORD, 

{{font|size=smaller|color=#0000FF|2}} His offering shall be of fine flour; and he shall pour oil upon it, and put frankincense thereon:

{{font|size=smaller|color=#0000FF|3}} And he shall bring it to Aaron's sons the priests: 

{{font|size=smaller|color=#0000FF|4}} And he shall take thereout his handful of the flour thereof, and of the oil thereof, with all the frankincense thereof; 

{{font|size=smaller|color=#0000FF|5}} And the priest shall burn the memorial of it upon the altar, to be an offering made by fire, of a sweet savour unto the LORD:

{{font|size=smaller|color=#0000FF|6}} And the remnant of the meat offering shall be Aaron's and his sons': it is a thing most holy of the offerings of the LORD made by fire.

{{font|size=smaller|color=#0000FF|7}} And if thou bring an oblation of a meat offering baken in the oven, 

{{font|size=smaller|color=#0000FF|8}} It shall be unleavened cakes of fine flour mingled with oil, or unleavened wafers anointed with oil.

{{font|size=smaller|color=#0000FF|9}} And if thy oblation be a meat offering baken in a pan, it shall be of fine flour unleavened, mingled with oil.

{{font|size=smaller|color=#0000FF|10}} Thou shalt part it in pieces, and pour oil thereon: it is a meat offering.

{{font|size=smaller|color=#0000FF|11}} And if thy oblation be a meat offering baken in the fryingpan, it shall be made of fine flour with oil.

{{font|size=smaller|color=#0000FF|12}} And thou shalt bring the meat offering that is made of these things unto the LORD: 

{{font|size=smaller|color=#0000FF|13}} And when it is presented unto the priest, he shall bring it unto the altar.

{{font|size=smaller|color=#0000FF|14}} And the priest shall take from the meat offering a memorial thereof, and shall burn it upon the altar: 

{{font|size=smaller|color=#0000FF|15}} It is an offering made by fire, of a sweet savour unto the LORD.

{{font|size=smaller|color=#0000FF|16}} And that which is left of the meat offering shall be Aaron's and his sons': 

{{font|size=smaller|color=#0000FF|17}} It is a thing most holy of the offerings of the LORD made by fire.

{{font|size=smaller|color=#0000FF|18}} No meat offering, which ye shall bring unto the LORD, shall be made with leaven: 

{{font|size=smaller|color=#0000FF|19}} For ye shall burn no leaven, nor any honey, in any offering of the LORD made by fire.

{{font|size=smaller|color=#0000FF|20}} As for the oblation of the firstfruits, ye shall offer them unto the LORD: 

:{{font|size=smaller|color=#0000FF|A}} But they shall not be burnt on the altar for a sweet savour.

:{{font|size=smaller|color=#0000FF|B}} And every oblatian of thy meat offering shalt thou season with salt

:{{font|size=smaller|color=#0000FF|C}} Neither shalt thou suffer the salt of the covenant of thy God to be lacking from thy meat offering: with all thine offerings thou shalt offer salt.

{{font|size=smaller|color=#0000FF|21}} And if thou offer a meat offering of thy firstfruits unto the LORD, 

:{{font|size=smaller|color=#0000FF|A}} Thou shalt offer for the meat offering of thy firstfruits green ears of corn dried by the fire, even corn beaten out of full ears.

:{{font|size=smaller|color=#0000FF|B}} And thou shalt put oil upon it, and lay frankincense thereon: it is a meat offering.

:{{font|size=smaller|color=#0000FF|C}} And the priest shall burn the memorial of it, part of the beaten corn thereof, and part of the oil thereof, with all the frankincense thereof: 

:{{font|size=smaller|color=#0000FF|D}} It is an offering made by fire unto the LORD.

=== Disposal of Offerings ===
:''(based on Leviticus 6:9-30, and Leviticus 7:1-21, which has a very brief example of its non-optional nature at Leviticus 10:16-20)''

{{font|size=smaller|color=#0000FF|1}} This is the law of the burnt offering: 

:{{font|size=smaller|color=#0000FF|A}} It is the burnt offering, because of the burning upon the altar all night unto the morning, and the fire of the altar shall be burning in it.

:{{font|size=smaller|color=#0000FF|B}} And the priest shall put on his linen garment, and his linen breeches shall he put upon his flesh, 

:{{font|size=smaller|color=#0000FF|C}} And take up the ashes which the fire hath consumed with the burnt offering on the altar, and he shall put them beside the altar.

:{{font|size=smaller|color=#0000FF|D}} And he shall put off his garments, and put on other garments, and carry forth the ashes without the camp unto a clean place.

:{{font|size=smaller|color=#0000FF|E}} And the fire upon the altar shall be burning in it; it shall not be put out: 

:{{font|size=smaller|color=#0000FF|F}} And the priest shall burn wood on it every morning, and lay the burnt offering in order upon it; 

:{{font|size=smaller|color=#0000FF|G}} And he shall burn thereon the fat of the peace offerings.

:{{font|size=smaller|color=#0000FF|H}} The fire shall ever be burning upon the altar; it shall nevergo out.

{{font|size=smaller|color=#0000FF|2}} And this is the law of the meat offering: 

:{{font|size=smaller|color=#0000FF|A}} The sons of Aaron shall offer it before the LORD, before the altar.

:{{font|size=smaller|color=#0000FF|B}} And he shall take of it his handful, of the flour of the meat offering, and of the oil thereof, and all the frankincense which is upon the meat offering, 

:{{font|size=smaller|color=#0000FF|C}} And shall burn it upon the altar for a sweet savour, even the memorial of it, unto the LORD.

:{{font|size=smaller|color=#0000FF|D}} And the remainder thereof shall Aaron and his sons eat: with unleavened bread shall it be eaten in the holy place; 

:{{font|size=smaller|color=#0000FF|E}} In the court of the tabernacle of the congregation they shall eat it.

:{{font|size=smaller|color=#0000FF|F}} It shall not be baken with leaven. I have given it unto them for their portion of my offerings made by fire; 

:{{font|size=smaller|color=#0000FF|G}} It is most holy, as is the sin offering, and as the trespass offering.

:{{font|size=smaller|color=#0000FF|H}} All the males among the children of Aaron shall eat of it. 

:{{font|size=smaller|color=#0000FF|I}} It shall be a statute for ever in your generations concerning the offerings of the LORD made by fire: every one that toucheth them shall be holy.

{{font|size=smaller|color=#0000FF|3}} This is the offering of Aaron and of his sons, which they shall offer unto the LORD in the day when he is anointed; 

:{{font|size=smaller|color=#0000FF|A}} The tenth part of an ephah of fine flour for a meat offering perpetual, half of it in the morning, and half thereof at night.

:{{font|size=smaller|color=#0000FF|B}} In a pan it shall be made with oil; and when it is baken, thou shalt bring it in: 

:{{font|size=smaller|color=#0000FF|C}} And the baken pieces of the meat offering shalt thou offer for a sweet savour unto the LORD.

:{{font|size=smaller|color=#0000FF|D}} And the priest of his sons that is anointed in his stead shall offer it: 

:{{font|size=smaller|color=#0000FF|E}} It is a statute for ever unto the LORD; it shall be wholly burnt.

:{{font|size=smaller|color=#0000FF|F}} For every meat offering for the priest shall be wholly burnt: it shall not be eaten.

{{font|size=smaller|color=#0000FF|4}} This is the law of the sin offering: 

:{{font|size=smaller|color=#0000FF|A}} In the place where the burnt offering is killed shall the sin offering be killed before the LORD: it is most holy.

:{{font|size=smaller|color=#0000FF|B}} The priest that offereth it for sin shall eat it: in the holy place shall it be eaten, in the court of the tabernacle of the congregation.

:{{font|size=smaller|color=#0000FF|C}} Whatsoever shall touch the flesh thereof shall be holy: 

:{{font|size=smaller|color=#0000FF|D}} And when there is sprinkled of the blood thereof upon any garment, thou shalt wash that whereon it was sprinkled in the holy place.

:{{font|size=smaller|color=#0000FF|E}} But the earthen vessel wherein it is sodden shall be broken: 

:{{font|size=smaller|color=#0000FF|F}} And if it be sodden in a brasen pot, it shall be both scoured, and rinsed in water.

:{{font|size=smaller|color=#0000FF|G}} All the males among the priests shall eat thereof: it is most holy.

:{{font|size=smaller|color=#0000FF|H}} And no sin offering, whereof any of the blood is brought into the tabernacle of the congregation to reconcile withal in the holy place, shall be eaten: it shall be burnt in the fire.

{{font|size=smaller|color=#0000FF|5}} Likewise this is the law of the trespass offering: it is most holy.

:{{font|size=smaller|color=#0000FF|A}} In the place where they kill the burnt offering shall they kill the trespass offering: 

:{{font|size=smaller|color=#0000FF|B}} And the blood thereof shall he sprinkle round about upon the altar.

:{{font|size=smaller|color=#0000FF|C}} And he shall offer of it all the fat thereof; the rump, and the fat that covereth the inwards,

:{{font|size=smaller|color=#0000FF|D}} And the two kidneys, and the fat that is on them, which is by the flanks, and the caul that is above the liver, with the kidneys, it shall he take away:

:{{font|size=smaller|color=#0000FF|E}} And the priest shall burn them upon the altar for an offering made by fire unto the LORD: it is a trespass offering.

:{{font|size=smaller|color=#0000FF|F}} Every male among the priests shall eat thereof: it shall be eaten in the holy place: it is most holy.

:{{font|size=smaller|color=#0000FF|G}} As the sin offering is, so is the trespass offering: there is one law for them: the priest that maketh atonement therewith shall have it.

{{font|size=smaller|color=#0000FF|6}} And the priest that offereth any man's burnt offering, even the priest shall have to himself the skin of the burnt offering which he hath offered.

{{font|size=smaller|color=#0000FF|7}} And all the meat offering that is baken in the oven, and all that is dressed in the fryingpan, and in the pan, shall be the priest's that offereth it.

{{font|size=smaller|color=#0000FF|8}} And every meat offering, mingled with oil, and dry, shall all the sons of Aaron have, one as much as another.

{{font|size=smaller|color=#0000FF|9}} And this is the law of the sacrifice of peace offerings, which he shall offer unto the LORD.

:{{font|size=smaller|color=#0000FF|A}} If he offer it for a thanksgiving, 

::{{font|size=smaller|color=#0000FF|i}} Then he shall offer with the sacrifice of thanksgiving unleavened cakes mingled with oil, 

::{{font|size=smaller|color=#0000FF|ii}} And unleavened wafers anointed with oil, and cakes mingled with oil, of fine flour, fried.

::{{font|size=smaller|color=#0000FF|iii}} Besides the cakes, he shall offer for his offering leavened bread with the sacrifice of thanksgiving of his peace offerings.

::{{font|size=smaller|color=#0000FF|iv}} And of it he shall offer one out of the whole oblation for an heave offering unto the LORD, 

::{{font|size=smaller|color=#0000FF|v}} And it shall be the priest's that sprinkleth the blood of the peace offerings.

::{{font|size=smaller|color=#0000FF|vi}} And the flesh of the sacrifice of his peace offerings for thanksgiving shall be eaten the same day that it is offered; 

::{{font|size=smaller|color=#0000FF|vii}} He shall not leave any of it until the morning.

:{{font|size=smaller|color=#0000FF|B}} But if the sacrifice of his offering be a vow, or a voluntary offering, 

::{{font|size=smaller|color=#0000FF|i}} It shall be eaten the same day that he offereth his sacrifice: 

::{{font|size=smaller|color=#0000FF|ii}} And on the morrow also the remainder of it shall be eaten:

::{{font|size=smaller|color=#0000FF|iii}} But the remainder of the flesh of the sacrifice on the third day shall be burnt with fire.

:{{font|size=smaller|color=#0000FF|C}} And if any of the flesh of the sacrifice of his peace offerings be eaten at all on the third day, 

::{{font|size=smaller|color=#0000FF|i}} It shall not be accepted, neither shall it be imputed unto him that offereth it: 

::{{font|size=smaller|color=#0000FF|ii}} It shall be an abomination, and the soul that eateth of it shall bear his iniquity.

:{{font|size=smaller|color=#0000FF|D}} And the flesh that toucheth any unclean thing shall not be eaten; it shall be burnt with fire: 

::{{font|size=smaller|color=#0000FF|i}} And as for the flesh, all that be clean shall eat thereof.

:{{font|size=smaller|color=#0000FF|E}} But the soul that eateth of the flesh of the sacrifice of peace offerings, that pertain unto the LORD, 

::{{font|size=smaller|color=#0000FF|i}} Having his uncleanness upon him, even that soul shall be cut off from his people.

::{{font|size=smaller|color=#0000FF|ii}} Moreover the soul that shall touch any unclean thing, as the uncleanness of man, or any unclean beast, or any abominable unclean thing, 

::{{font|size=smaller|color=#0000FF|iii}} And eat of the flesh of the sacrifice of peace offerings, which pertain unto the LORD, even that soul shall be cut off from his people.

== Consecration Rites ==

=== Priests ===
:''(based on Exodus 29:1-35, and Leviticus 21:10, duplicated, as a description of it being carried out, at Leviticus 8)''

{{font|size=smaller|color=#0000FF|1}} And this is the thing that thou shalt do unto them to hallow them, to minister unto me in the priest's office: 

{{font|size=smaller|color=#0000FF|2}} Take one young bullock, and two rams without blemish,

{{font|size=smaller|color=#0000FF|3}} And unleavened bread, and cakes unleavened tempered with oil, and wafers unleavened anointed with oil: of wheaten flour shalt thou make them.

{{font|size=smaller|color=#0000FF|4}} And thou shalt put them into one basket, and bring them in the basket, with the bullock and the two rams.

{{font|size=smaller|color=#0000FF|5}} And Aaron and his sons thou shalt bring unto the door of the tabernacle of the congregation, and shalt wash them with water.

{{font|size=smaller|color=#0000FF|6}} And thou shalt take the garments, and put upon Aaron the coat, and the robe of the ephod, and the ephod, and the breastplate, and gird him with the curious girdle of the ephod:

{{font|size=smaller|color=#0000FF|7}} And thou shalt put the mitre upon his head, and put the holy crown upon the mitre.

{{font|size=smaller|color=#0000FF|8}} Then shalt thou take the anointing oil, and pour it upon his head, and anoint him.

<small>{{font|color=#0000FF|9}}</small> And he that is the high priest among his brethren,

<small>{{font|color=#0000FF|10}}</small> Upon whose head the anointing oil was poured, and that is consecrated to put on the garments,

<small>{{font|color=#0000FF|11}}</small> Shall not uncover his head, nor rend his clothes;

{{font|size=smaller|color=#0000FF|12}} And thou shalt bring his sons, and put coats upon them. 

{{font|size=smaller|color=#0000FF|13}} And thou shalt gird them with girdles, Aaron and his sons, and put the bonnets on them: 

{{font|size=smaller|color=#0000FF|14}} And the priest's office shall be theirs for a perpetual statute: and thou shalt consecrate Aaron and his sons.

{{font|size=smaller|color=#0000FF|15}} And thou shalt cause a bullock to be brought before the tabernacle of the congregation: 

{{font|size=smaller|color=#0000FF|16}} And Aaron and his sons shall put their hands upon the head of the bullock.

{{font|size=smaller|color=#0000FF|17}} And thou shalt kill the bullock before the LORD, by the door of the tabernacle of the congregation.

{{font|size=smaller|color=#0000FF|18}} And thou shalt take of the blood of the bullock, and put it upon the horns of the altar with thy finger, and pour all the blood beside the bottom of the altar.

{{font|size=smaller|color=#0000FF|19}} And thou shalt take all the fat that covereth the inwards, and the caul that is above the liver, and the two kidneys, and the fat that is upon them, and burn them upon the altar.

{{font|size=smaller|color=#0000FF|20}} But the flesh of the bullock, and his skin, and his dung, shalt thou burn with fire without the camp: it is a sin offering.

{{font|size=smaller|color=#0000FF|21}} Thou shalt also take one ram; and Aaron and his sons shall put their hands upon the head of the ram.

{{font|size=smaller|color=#0000FF|22}} And thou shalt slay the ram, and thou shalt take his blood, and sprinkle it round about upon the altar.

{{font|size=smaller|color=#0000FF|23}} And thou shalt cut the ram in pieces, and wash the inwards of him, and his legs, and put them unto his pieces, and unto his head.

{{font|size=smaller|color=#0000FF|24}} And thou shalt burn the whole ram upon the altar: it is a burnt offering unto the LORD: 

{{font|size=smaller|color=#0000FF|25}} It is a sweet savour, an offering made by fire unto the LORD.

{{font|size=smaller|color=#0000FF|26}} And thou shalt take the other ram; and Aaron and his sons shall put their hands upon the head of the ram.

{{font|size=smaller|color=#0000FF|27}} Then shalt thou kill the ram, and take of his blood, and put it upon the tip of the right ear of Aaron, and upon the tip of the right ear of his sons, 

{{font|size=smaller|color=#0000FF|28}} And upon the thumb of their right hand, and upon the great toe of their right foot, and sprinkle the blood upon the altar round about.
 
{{font|size=smaller|color=#0000FF|29}} And thou shalt take of the blood that is upon the altar, and of the anointing oil, and sprinkle it upon Aaron, and upon his garments, and upon his sons, and upon the garments of his sons with him: 

{{font|size=smaller|color=#0000FF|30}} And he shall be hallowed, and his garments, and his sons, and his sons' garments with him.

{{font|size=smaller|color=#0000FF|31}} Also thou shalt take of the ram the fat and the rump, and the fat that covereth the inwards, and the caul above the liver, and the two kidneys, and the fat that is upon them, and the right shoulder; for it is a ram of consecration:

{{font|size=smaller|color=#0000FF|32}} And one loaf of bread, and one cake of oiled bread, and one wafer out of the basket of the unleavened bread that is before the LORD:

{{font|size=smaller|color=#0000FF|33}} And thou shalt put all in the hands of Aaron, and in the hands of his sons; and shalt wave them for a wave offering before the LORD.

{{font|size=smaller|color=#0000FF|34}} And thou shalt receive them of their hands, and burn them upon the altar for a burnt offering, 

{{font|size=smaller|color=#0000FF|35}} For a sweet savour before the LORD: it is an offering made by fire unto the LORD.

{{font|size=smaller|color=#0000FF|36}} And thou shalt take the breast of the ram of Aaron's consecration, and wave it for a wave offering before the LORD: and it shall be thy part.

{{font|size=smaller|color=#0000FF|37}} And thou shalt sanctify the breast of the wave offering, and the shoulder of the heave offering, which is waved, 

{{font|size=smaller|color=#0000FF|38}} And which is heaved up, of the ram of the consecration, even of that which is for Aaron, and of that which is for his sons:

{{font|size=smaller|color=#0000FF|39}} And it shall be Aaron's and his sons' by a statute for ever from the children of Israel: for it is an heave offering: 

{{font|size=smaller|color=#0000FF|40}} And it shall be an heave offering from the children of Israel of the sacrifice of their peace offerings, even their heave offering unto the LORD.

{{font|size=smaller|color=#0000FF|41}} And the holy garments of Aaron shall be his sons' after him, to be anointed therein, and to be consecrated in them.

{{font|size=smaller|color=#0000FF|42}} And that son that is priest in his stead shall put them on seven days, when he cometh into the tabernacle of the congregation to minister in the holy place.

{{font|size=smaller|color=#0000FF|43}} And thou shalt take the ram of the consecration, and seethe his flesh in the holy place.

{{font|size=smaller|color=#0000FF|44}} And Aaron and his sons shall eat the flesh of the ram, and the bread that is in the basket by the door of the tabernacle of the congregation.

{{font|size=smaller|color=#0000FF|45}} And they shall eat those things wherewith the atonement was made, to consecrate and to sanctify them: 

{{font|size=smaller|color=#0000FF|46}} But a stranger shall not eat thereof, because they are holy.

{{font|size=smaller|color=#0000FF|47}} And if ought of the flesh of the consecrations, or of the bread, remain unto the morning, 

{{font|size=smaller|color=#0000FF|48}} Then thou shalt burn the remainder with fire: it shall not be eaten, because it is holy.

{{font|size=smaller|color=#0000FF|49}} And thus shalt thou do unto Aaron, and to his sons, according to all things which I have commanded thee: 

{{font|size=smaller|color=#0000FF|50}} Seven days shalt thou consecrate them.

=== Levites ===
:''(based on Numbers 8:1-15, with a very basic description of it being carried out at Numbers 8:20-22)''

{{font|size=smaller|color=#0000FF|1}} Take the Levites from among the children of Israel, and cleanse them.

{{font|size=smaller|color=#0000FF|2}} And thus shalt thou do unto them, to cleanse them: 

{{font|size=smaller|color=#0000FF|3}} Sprinkle water of purifying upon them, and let them shave all their flesh, and let them wash their clothes, and so make themselves clean.

{{font|size=smaller|color=#0000FF|4}} Then let them take a young bullock with his meat offering, even fine flour mingled with oil, 

{{font|size=smaller|color=#0000FF|5}} And another young bullock shalt thou take for a sin offering.

{{font|size=smaller|color=#0000FF|6}} And thou shalt bring the Levites before the tabernacle of the congregation: 

{{font|size=smaller|color=#0000FF|7}} And thou shalt gather the whole assembly of the children of Israel together:

{{font|size=smaller|color=#0000FF|8}} And thou shalt bring the Levites before the LORD: and the children of Israel shall put their hands upon the Levites:

{{font|size=smaller|color=#0000FF|9}} And Aaron shall offer the Levites before the LORD for an offering of the children of Israel, that they may execute the service of the LORD.

{{font|size=smaller|color=#0000FF|10}} And the Levites shall lay their hands upon the heads of the bullocks: 

{{font|size=smaller|color=#0000FF|11}} And thou shalt offer the one for a sin offering, and the other for a burnt offering, unto the LORD, to make an atonement for the Levites.

{{font|size=smaller|color=#0000FF|12}} And thou shalt set the Levites before Aaron, and before his sons, and offer them for an offering unto the LORD.

{{font|size=smaller|color=#0000FF|13}} Thus shalt thou separate the Levites from among the children of Israel: and the Levites shall be mine.

{{font|size=smaller|color=#0000FF|14}} And after that shall the Levites go in to do the service of the tabernacle of the congregation: 

{{font|size=smaller|color=#0000FF|15}} And thou shalt cleanse them, and offer them for an offering.

=== Nazarites ===
:''(based on Numbers 6:1-21)''

{{font|size=smaller|color=#0000FF|1}} And the LORD spake unto Moses, saying, Speak unto the children of Israel, and say unto them, 

{{font|size=smaller|color=#0000FF|2}} When either man or woman shall separate themselves to vow a vow of a Nazarite, to separate themselves unto the LORD:

{{font|size=smaller|color=#0000FF|3}} He shall separate himself from wine and strong drink, and shall drink no vinegar of wine, or vinegar of strong drink, 

{{font|size=smaller|color=#0000FF|4}} Neither shall he drink any liquor of grapes, nor eat moist grapes, or dried.

{{font|size=smaller|color=#0000FF|5}} All the days of his separation shall he eat nothing that is made of the vine tree, from the kernels even to the husk.

{{font|size=smaller|color=#0000FF|6}} All the days of the vow of his separation there shall no razor come upon his head: 

{{font|size=smaller|color=#0000FF|7}} Until the days be fulfilled, in the which he separateth himself unto the LORD, he shall be holy, and shall let the locks of the hair of his head grow.

{{font|size=smaller|color=#0000FF|8}} All the days that he separateth himself unto the LORD he shall come at no dead body.

{{font|size=smaller|color=#0000FF|9}} He shall not make himself unclean for his father, or for his mother, for his brother, or for his sister, when they die: 

{{font|size=smaller|color=#0000FF|10}} Because the consecration of his God is upon his head.

{{font|size=smaller|color=#0000FF|11}} All the days of his separation he is holy unto the LORD.

{{font|size=smaller|color=#0000FF|12}} And if any man die very suddenly by him, and he hath defiled the head of his consecration; 

{{font|size=smaller|color=#0000FF|13}} Then he shall shave his head in the day of his cleansing, on the seventh day shall he shave it.

{{font|size=smaller|color=#0000FF|14}} And on the eighth day he shall bring two turtles, or two young pigeons, 

{{font|size=smaller|color=#0000FF|15}} To the priest, to the door of the tabernacle of the congregation:

{{font|size=smaller|color=#0000FF|16}} And the priest shall offer the one for a sin offering, and the other for a burnt offering, 

{{font|size=smaller|color=#0000FF|17}} And make an atonement for him, for that he sinned by the dead, and shall hallow his head that same day.

{{font|size=smaller|color=#0000FF|18}} And he shall consecrate unto the LORD the days of his separation, and shall bring a lamb of the first year for a trespass offering: 

{{font|size=smaller|color=#0000FF|19}} But the days that were before shall be lost, because his separation was defiled.

{{font|size=smaller|color=#0000FF|20}} And this is the law of the Nazarite, when the days of his separation are fulfilled: 

{{font|size=smaller|color=#0000FF|21}} He shall be brought unto the door of the tabernacle of the congregation:

{{font|size=smaller|color=#0000FF|22}} And he shall offer his offering unto the LORD, 

{{font|size=smaller|color=#0000FF|23}} One he lamb of the first year without blemish for a burnt offering, 

{{font|size=smaller|color=#0000FF|24}} And one ewe lamb of the first year without blemish for a sin offering, 

{{font|size=smaller|color=#0000FF|25}} And one ram without blemish for peace offerings,

{{font|size=smaller|color=#0000FF|26}} And a basket of unleavened bread, cakes of fine flour mingled with oil, and wafers of unleavened bread anointed with oil, 

{{font|size=smaller|color=#0000FF|27}} And their meat offering, and their drink offerings.

{{font|size=smaller|color=#0000FF|28}} And the priest shall bring them before the LORD, and shall offer his sin offering, and his burnt offering:

{{font|size=smaller|color=#0000FF|29}} And he shall offer the ram for a sacrifice of peace offerings unto the LORD, with the basket of unleavened bread: 

{{font|size=smaller|color=#0000FF|30}} The priest shall offer also his meat offering, and his drink offering.

{{font|size=smaller|color=#0000FF|31}} And the Nazarite shall shave the head of his separation at the door of the tabernacle of the congregation, 

{{font|size=smaller|color=#0000FF|32}} And shall take the hair of the head of his separation, and put it in the fire which is under the sacrifice of the peace offerings.

{{font|size=smaller|color=#0000FF|33}} And the priest shall take the sodden shoulder of the ram, and one unleavened cake out of the basket, and one unleavened wafer, 

{{font|size=smaller|color=#0000FF|34}} And shall put them upon the hands of the Nazarite, after the hair of his separation is shaven:

{{font|size=smaller|color=#0000FF|35}} And the priest shall wave them for a wave offering before the LORD: 

{{font|size=smaller|color=#0000FF|36}} This is holy for the priest, with the wave breast and heave shoulder: 

{{font|size=smaller|color=#0000FF|37}} And after that the Nazarite may drink wine.

{{font|size=smaller|color=#0000FF|38}} This is the law of the Nazarite who hath vowed, and of his offering unto the LORD for his separation, beside that that his hand shall get: 

{{font|size=smaller|color=#0000FF|39}} According to the vow which he vowed, so he must do after the law of his separation.

== The Use of Ritual Equipment ==

=== The Incense Alter ===
:''(based on Exodus 30:7-10, with a very brief example of how compulsory it is at Leviticus 10:1-5)''

{{font|size=smaller|color=#0000FF|1}} And Aaron shall burn sweet incense, upon the alter of incense, every morning: 

{{font|size=smaller|color=#0000FF|2}} When he dresseth the lamps, he shall burn incense upon it.

{{font|size=smaller|color=#0000FF|3}} And when Aaron lighteth the lamps at even, he shall burn incense upon it, 

{{font|size=smaller|color=#0000FF|4}} A perpetual incense before the LORD throughout your generations.

{{font|size=smaller|color=#0000FF|5}} Ye shall offer no strange incense thereon, nor burnt sacrifice, nor meat offering; neither shall ye pour drink offering thereon.

{{font|size=smaller|color=#0000FF|6}} And Aaron shall make an atonement upon the horns of it once in a year with the blood of the sin offering of atonements: 

{{font|size=smaller|color=#0000FF|7}} Once in the year shall he make atonement upon it throughout your generations: it is most holy unto the LORD.

=== Washing ===
:''(based on Exodus 30:19-21)''

{{font|size=smaller|color=#0000FF|1}} For Aaron and his sons shall wash their hands and their feet at the laver.

{{font|size=smaller|color=#0000FF|2}} When they go into the tabernacle of the congregation, they shall wash with water, that they die not; 

{{font|size=smaller|color=#0000FF|3}} Or when they come near to the altar to minister, to burn offering made by fire unto the LORD:

{{font|size=smaller|color=#0000FF|4}} So they shall wash their hands and their feet, that they die not: 

{{font|size=smaller|color=#0000FF|5}} And it shall be a statute for ever to them, even to him and to his seed throughout their generations.

=== Holy Oil ===
:''(based on Exodus 30:26-33, and Exodus 30:37-38)''

{{font|size=smaller|color=#0000FF|1}} And thou shalt anoint the tabernacle of the congregation with holy oil, and the ark of the testimony,

{{font|size=smaller|color=#0000FF|2}} And the table and all his vessels, and the candlestick and his vessels, and the altar of incense,

{{font|size=smaller|color=#0000FF|3}} And the altar of burnt offering with all his vessels, and the laver and his foot.

{{font|size=smaller|color=#0000FF|4}} And thou shalt sanctify them, that they may be most holy: 

{{font|size=smaller|color=#0000FF|5}} Whatsoever toucheth them shall be holy.

{{font|size=smaller|color=#0000FF|6}} And thou shalt anoint Aaron and his sons, and consecrate them, 

{{font|size=smaller|color=#0000FF|7}} That they may minister unto me in the priest's office.

{{font|size=smaller|color=#0000FF|8}} And thou shalt speak unto the children of Israel, saying, 

{{font|size=smaller|color=#0000FF|9}} This shall be an holy anointing oil unto me throughout your generations.

{{font|size=smaller|color=#0000FF|10}} Upon man's flesh shall it not be poured, neither shall ye make any other like it, after the composition of it: it is holy, and it shall be holy unto you.

{{font|size=smaller|color=#0000FF|11}} Whosoever compoundeth any like it, or whosoever putteth any of it upon a stranger, shall even be cut off from his people.

{{font|size=smaller|color=#0000FF|12}} And as for the perfume which thou shalt make, ye shall not make to yourselves according to the composition thereof: it shall be unto thee holy for the LORD.

{{font|size=smaller|color=#0000FF|13}} Whosoever shall make like unto that, to smell thereto, shall even be cut off from his people.

=== Lamps ===
:''(based on Leviticus 24:1-4 and Numbers 8:1-2, with a very basic description of it being carried out at Numbers 8:3)''

{{font|size=smaller|color=#0000FF|1}} Pure oil olive shall be beaten for the light, to cause the lamps to burn continually.

{{font|size=smaller|color=#0000FF|2}} Without the vail of the testimony, in the tabernacle of the congregation, 

{{font|size=smaller|color=#0000FF|3}} Shall Aaron order it from the evening unto the morning before the LORD continually: it shall be a statute for ever in your generations.

{{font|size=smaller|color=#0000FF|4}} He shall order the lamps upon the pure candlestick before the LORD continually.

{{font|size=smaller|color=#0000FF|5}} And when thou lightest the lamps, the seven lamps shall give light over against the candlestick.

=== Shewbread ===
:''(based on Leviticus 24:5-9)''

{{font|size=smaller|color=#0000FF|1}} And thou shalt take fine flour, and bake twelve cakes thereof: two tenth deals shall be in one cake.

{{font|size=smaller|color=#0000FF|2}} And thou shalt set them in two rows, six on a row, upon the pure table before the LORD.

{{font|size=smaller|color=#0000FF|3}} And thou shalt put pure frankincense upon each row, that it may be on the bread for a memorial, even an offering made by fire unto the LORD.

{{font|size=smaller|color=#0000FF|4}} Every sabbath he shall set it in order before the LORD continually, being taken from the children of Israel by an everlasting covenant.

{{font|size=smaller|color=#0000FF|5}} And it shall be Aaron's and his sons'; and they shall eat it in the holy place: 

{{font|size=smaller|color=#0000FF|6}} For it is most holy unto him of the offerings of the LORD made by fire by a perpetual statute.

=== Blue Fringes ===
:''(based on Numbers 15:37-41)''

{{font|size=smaller|color=#0000FF|1}} Make fringes in the borders of thy garments throughout the generations, 

{{font|size=smaller|color=#0000FF|2}} And put upon the fringe of the borders a ribband of blue:

{{font|size=smaller|color=#0000FF|3}} And it shall be unto you for a fringe, that ye may look upon it, and remember all the commandments of the LORD, and do them; 

{{font|size=smaller|color=#0000FF|4}} And that ye seek not after your own heart and your own eyes, after which ye use to go a whoring:

{{font|size=smaller|color=#0000FF|5}} That ye may remember, and do all my commandments, and be holy unto your God.

=== Packing up the Tabernacle ===
:''(based on Numbers 4:5-14)''

{{font|size=smaller|color=#0000FF|1}} When the camp setteth forward, Aaron, and his sons, shall take down the covering vail, and cover the ark of testimony with it:

{{font|size=smaller|color=#0000FF|2}} And shall put thereon the covering of badgers' skins, and shall spread over it a cloth wholly of blue, and shall put in the staves thereof.

{{font|size=smaller|color=#0000FF|3}} And upon the table of shewbread they shall spread a cloth of blue, 

{{font|size=smaller|color=#0000FF|4}} And put thereon the dishes, and the spoons, and the bowls, and covers to cover withal: and the continual bread shall be thereon:

{{font|size=smaller|color=#0000FF|5}} And they shall spread upon them a cloth of scarlet, and cover the same with a covering of badgers' skins, and shall put in the staves thereof.

{{font|size=smaller|color=#0000FF|6}} And they shall take a cloth of blue, and cover the candlestick of the light, 

{{font|size=smaller|color=#0000FF|7}} And his lamps, and his tongs, and his snuffdishes, and all the oil vessels thereof, wherewith they minister unto it:

{{font|size=smaller|color=#0000FF|8}} And they shall put it and all the vessels thereof within a covering of badgers' skins, and shall put it upon a bar.

{{font|size=smaller|color=#0000FF|9}} And upon the golden altar they shall spread a cloth of blue, and cover it with a covering of badgers' skins, and shall put to the staves thereof:

{{font|size=smaller|color=#0000FF|10}} And they shall take all the instruments of ministry, wherewith they minister in the sanctuary, 

{{font|size=smaller|color=#0000FF|11}} And put them in a cloth of blue, and cover them with a covering of badgers' skins, and shall put them on a bar:

{{font|size=smaller|color=#0000FF|12}} And they shall take away the ashes from the altar, and spread a purple cloth thereon:

{{font|size=smaller|color=#0000FF|13}} And they shall put upon it all the vessels thereof, wherewith they minister about it, 

{{font|size=smaller|color=#0000FF|14}} Even the censers, the fleshhooks, and the shovels, and the basons, all the vessels of the altar; 

{{font|size=smaller|color=#0000FF|15}} And they shall spread upon it a covering of badgers' skins, and put to the staves of it.

== Cleansing ==

=== Water of Cleansing ===
:''(based on Numbers 19)''

{{font|size=smaller|color=#0000FF|1}} Bring a red heifer without spot, wherein is no blemish, and upon which never came yoke:

{{font|size=smaller|color=#0000FF|2}} And ye shall give her unto Eleazar the priest, that he may bring her forth without the camp, and one shall slay her before his face:

{{font|size=smaller|color=#0000FF|3}} And Eleazar the priest shall take of her blood with his finger, 

{{font|size=smaller|color=#0000FF|4}} And sprinkle of her blood directly before the tabernacle of the congregation seven times:

{{font|size=smaller|color=#0000FF|5}} And one shall burn the heifer in his sight; her skin, and her flesh, and her blood, with her dung, shall he burn:

{{font|size=smaller|color=#0000FF|6}} And the priest shall take cedar wood, and hyssop, and scarlet, and cast it into the midst of the burning of the heifer.

{{font|size=smaller|color=#0000FF|7}} Then the priest shall wash his clothes, and he shall bathe his flesh in water, 

{{font|size=smaller|color=#0000FF|8}} And afterward he shall come into the camp, and the priest shall be unclean until the even.

{{font|size=smaller|color=#0000FF|9}} And he that burneth her shall wash his clothes in water, and bathe his flesh in water, and shall be unclean until the even.

{{font|size=smaller|color=#0000FF|10}} And a man that is clean shall gather up the ashes of the heifer, and lay them up without the camp in a clean place, 

{{font|size=smaller|color=#0000FF|11}} And it shall be kept for the congregation of the children of Israel for a water of separation: it is a purification for sin.

{{font|size=smaller|color=#0000FF|12}} And he that gathereth the ashes of the heifer shall wash his clothes, and be unclean until the even: 

{{font|size=smaller|color=#0000FF|13}} And it shall be unto the children of Israel, and unto the stranger that sojourneth among them, for a statute for ever.

{{font|size=smaller|color=#0000FF|14}} He that toucheth the dead body of any man shall be unclean seven days.

{{font|size=smaller|color=#0000FF|15}} He shall purify himself with it on the third day, and on the seventh day he shall be clean: 

{{font|size=smaller|color=#0000FF|16}} But if he purify not himself the third day, then the seventh day he shall not be clean.

{{font|size=smaller|color=#0000FF|17}} Whosoever toucheth the dead body of any man that is dead, and purifieth not himself, defileth the tabernacle of the LORD; 

{{font|size=smaller|color=#0000FF|18}} And that soul shall be cut off from Israel: because the water of separation was not sprinkled upon him, 

{{font|size=smaller|color=#0000FF|19}} He shall be unclean; his uncleanness is yet upon him.

{{font|size=smaller|color=#0000FF|20}} This is the law, when a man dieth in a tent: all that come into the tent, and all that is in the tent, shall be unclean seven days.

{{font|size=smaller|color=#0000FF|21}} And every open vessel, which hath no covering bound upon it, is unclean.

{{font|size=smaller|color=#0000FF|22}} And whosoever toucheth one that is slain with a sword in the open fields, or a dead body, or a bone of a man, or a grave, shall be unclean seven days.

{{font|size=smaller|color=#0000FF|23}} And for an unclean person they shall take of the ashes of the burnt heifer of purification for sin, and running water shall be put thereto in a vessel:

{{font|size=smaller|color=#0000FF|24}} And a clean person shall take hyssop, and dip it in the water, and sprinkle it upon the tent, 

{{font|size=smaller|color=#0000FF|25}} And upon all the vessels, and upon the persons that were there, and upon him that touched a bone, or one slain, or one dead, or a grave:

{{font|size=smaller|color=#0000FF|26}} And the clean person shall sprinkle upon the unclean on the third day, and on the seventh day: 

{{font|size=smaller|color=#0000FF|27}} And on the seventh day he shall purify himself, and wash his clothes, and bathe himself in water, and shall be clean at even.

{{font|size=smaller|color=#0000FF|28}} But the man that shall be unclean, and shall not purify himself, 

{{font|size=smaller|color=#0000FF|29}} That soul shall be cut off from among the congregation, because he hath defiled the sanctuary of the LORD: 

{{font|size=smaller|color=#0000FF|30}} The water of separation hath not been sprinkled upon him; he is unclean.

{{font|size=smaller|color=#0000FF|31}} And it shall be a perpetual statute unto them, that he that sprinkleth the water of separation shall wash his clothes; 

{{font|size=smaller|color=#0000FF|32}} And he that toucheth the water of separation shall be unclean until even.

{{font|size=smaller|color=#0000FF|33}} And whatsoever the unclean person toucheth shall be unclean; and the soul that toucheth it shall be unclean until even.

=== Cleansing Ex-Lepers and Ex-Plague Victims ===
:''(based on Leviticus 14)''

{{font|size=smaller|color=#0000FF|1}} This shall be the law of the leper in the day of his cleansing: 

{{font|size=smaller|color=#0000FF|2}} He shall be brought unto the priest: and the priest shall go forth out of the camp; 

{{font|size=smaller|color=#0000FF|3}} And the priest shall look, and, behold, if the plague of leprosy be healed in the leper;

{{font|size=smaller|color=#0000FF|4}} Then shall the priest command to take for him that is to be cleansed two birds alive and clean, and cedar wood, and scarlet, and hyssop:

{{font|size=smaller|color=#0000FF|5}} And the priest shall command that one of the birds be killed in an earthen vessel over running water:

{{font|size=smaller|color=#0000FF|6}} As for the living bird, he shall take it, and the cedar wood, and the scarlet, and the hyssop, 

{{font|size=smaller|color=#0000FF|7}} And shall dip them and the living bird in the blood of the bird that was killed over the running water:

{{font|size=smaller|color=#0000FF|8}} And he shall sprinkle upon him that is to be cleansed from the leprosy seven times, 

{{font|size=smaller|color=#0000FF|9}} And shall pronounce him clean, and shall let the living bird loose into the open field.

{{font|size=smaller|color=#0000FF|10}} And he that is to be cleansed shall wash his clothes, and shave off all his hair, and wash himself in water, that he may be clean: 

{{font|size=smaller|color=#0000FF|11}} And after that he shall come into the camp, and shall tarry abroad out of his tent seven days.

{{font|size=smaller|color=#0000FF|12}} But it shall be on the seventh day, that he shall shave all his hair off his head and his beard and his eyebrows, even all his hair he shall shave off: 

{{font|size=smaller|color=#0000FF|13}} And he shall wash his clothes, also he shall wash his flesh in water, and he shall be clean.

{{font|size=smaller|color=#0000FF|14}} And on the eighth day he shall take two he lambs without blemish, and one ewe lamb of the first year without blemish, 

{{font|size=smaller|color=#0000FF|15}} And three tenth deals of fine flour for a meat offering, mingled with oil, and one log of oil.

{{font|size=smaller|color=#0000FF|16}} And the priest that maketh him clean shall present the man that is to be made clean, and those things, before the LORD, at the door of the tabernacle of the congregation:

{{font|size=smaller|color=#0000FF|17}} And the priest shall take one he lamb, and offer him for a trespass offering, and the log of oil, and wave them for a wave offering before the LORD:

{{font|size=smaller|color=#0000FF|18}} And he shall slay the lamb in the place where he shall kill the sin offering and the burnt offering, in the holy place: 

{{font|size=smaller|color=#0000FF|19}} For as the sin offering is the priest's, so is the trespass offering: it is most holy:

{{font|size=smaller|color=#0000FF|20}} And the priest shall take some of the blood of the trespass offering, and the priest shall put it upon the tip of the right ear of him that is to be cleansed, 

{{font|size=smaller|color=#0000FF|21}} And upon the thumb of his right hand, and upon the great toe of his right foot:

{{font|size=smaller|color=#0000FF|22}} And the priest shall take some of the log of oil, and pour it into the palm of his own left hand:

{{font|size=smaller|color=#0000FF|23}} And the priest shall dip his right finger in the oil that is in his left hand, and shall sprinkle of the oil with his finger seven times before the LORD:

{{font|size=smaller|color=#0000FF|24}} And of the rest of the oil that is in his hand shall the priest put upon the tip of the right ear of him that is to be cleansed, 

{{font|size=smaller|color=#0000FF|25}} And upon the thumb of his right hand, and upon the great toe of his right foot, upon the blood of the trespass offering:

{{font|size=smaller|color=#0000FF|26}} And the remnant of the oil that is in the priest's hand he shall pour upon the head of him that is to be cleansed: 

{{font|size=smaller|color=#0000FF|27}} And the priest shall make an atonement for him before the LORD.

{{font|size=smaller|color=#0000FF|28}} And the priest shall offer the sin offering, and make an atonement for him that is to be cleansed from his uncleanness; 

{{font|size=smaller|color=#0000FF|29}} And afterward he shall kill the burnt offering:and the priest shall offer the burnt offering and the meat offering upon the altar: 

{{font|size=smaller|color=#0000FF|30}} And the priest shall make an atonement for him, and he shall be clean.

{{font|size=smaller|color=#0000FF|31}} And if he be poor, and cannot get so much; 

{{font|size=smaller|color=#0000FF|32}} Then he shall take one lamb for a trespass offering to be waved, to make an atonement for him, 

{{font|size=smaller|color=#0000FF|33}} And one tenth deal of fine flour mingled with oil for a meat offering, and a log of oil;

{{font|size=smaller|color=#0000FF|34}} And two turtledoves, or two young pigeons, such as he is able to get; 

{{font|size=smaller|color=#0000FF|35}} And the one shall be a sin offering, and the other a burnt offering.

{{font|size=smaller|color=#0000FF|36}} And he shall bring them on the eighth day for his cleansing unto the priest, 

{{font|size=smaller|color=#0000FF|37}} Unto the door of the tabernacle of the congregation, before the LORD.

{{font|size=smaller|color=#0000FF|38}} And the priest shall take the lamb of the trespass offering, and the log of oil, and the priest shall wave them for a wave offering before the LORD:

{{font|size=smaller|color=#0000FF|39}} And he shall kill the lamb of the trespass offering, 

{{font|size=smaller|color=#0000FF|40}} And the priest shall take some of the blood of the trespass offering, and put it upon the tip of the right ear of him that is to be cleansed, 

{{font|size=smaller|color=#0000FF|41}} And upon the thumb of his right hand, and upon the great toe of his right foot:

{{font|size=smaller|color=#0000FF|42}} And the priest shall pour of the oil into the palm of his own left hand:

{{font|size=smaller|color=#0000FF|43}} And the priest shall sprinkle with his right finger some of the oil that is in his left hand seven times before the LORD:

{{font|size=smaller|color=#0000FF|44}} And the priest shall put of the oil that is in his hand upon the tip of the right ear of him that is to be cleansed, 

{{font|size=smaller|color=#0000FF|45}} And upon the thumb of his right hand, and upon the great toe of his right foot, upon the place of the blood of the trespass offering:

{{font|size=smaller|color=#0000FF|46}} And the rest of the oil that is in the priest's hand he shall put upon the head of him that is to be cleansed, to make an atonement for him before the LORD.

{{font|size=smaller|color=#0000FF|47}} And he shall offer the one of the turtledoves, or of the young pigeons, such as he can get;

{{font|size=smaller|color=#0000FF|48}} Even such as he is able to get, the one for a sin offering, and the other for a burnt offering, with the meat offering: 

{{font|size=smaller|color=#0000FF|49}} And the priest shall make an atonement for him that is to be cleansed before the LORD.

{{font|size=smaller|color=#0000FF|50}} This is the law of him in whom is the plague of leprosy, whose hand is not able to get that which pertaineth to his cleansing.

{{font|size=smaller|color=#0000FF|51}} And when the LORD hath put the plague of leprosy in a house of the land of your possession;

{{font|size=smaller|color=#0000FF|52}} And he that owneth the house shall come and tell the priest, saying, It seemeth to me there is as it were a plague in the house:

{{font|size=smaller|color=#0000FF|53}} Then the priest shall command that they empty the house, before the priest go into it to see the plague, that all that is in the house be not made unclean: 

{{font|size=smaller|color=#0000FF|54}} And afterward the priest shall go in to see the house: and he shall look on the plague, 

{{font|size=smaller|color=#0000FF|55}} And, behold, if the plague be in the walls of the house with hollow strakes, greenish or reddish, which in sight are lower than the wall;

{{font|size=smaller|color=#0000FF|56}} Then the priest shall go out of the house to the door of the house, and shut up the house seven days:

{{font|size=smaller|color=#0000FF|57}} And the priest shall come again the seventh day, and shall look: and, behold, if the plague be spread in the walls of the house;

{{font|size=smaller|color=#0000FF|58}} Then the priest shall command that they take away the stones in which the plague is, 

{{font|size=smaller|color=#0000FF|59}} And they shall cast them into an unclean place without the city:

{{font|size=smaller|color=#0000FF|60}} And he shall cause the house to be scraped within round about, 

{{font|size=smaller|color=#0000FF|61}} And they shall pour out the dust that they scrape off without the city into an unclean place:

{{font|size=smaller|color=#0000FF|62}} And they shall take other stones, and put them in the place of those stones; and he shall take other morter, and shall plaister the house.

{{font|size=smaller|color=#0000FF|63}} And if the plague come again, and break out in the house, 

{{font|size=smaller|color=#0000FF|64}} After that he hath taken away the stones, and after he hath scraped the house, and after it is plaistered;

{{font|size=smaller|color=#0000FF|65}} Then the priest shall come and look, and, behold, if the plague be spread in the house, it is a fretting leprosy in the house; it is unclean.

{{font|size=smaller|color=#0000FF|66}} And he shall break down the house, the stones of it, and the timber thereof, and all the morter of the house; 

{{font|size=smaller|color=#0000FF|67}} And he shall carry them forth out of the city into an unclean place.

{{font|size=smaller|color=#0000FF|68}} Moreover he that goeth into the house all the while that it is shut up shall be unclean until the even.

{{font|size=smaller|color=#0000FF|69}} And he that lieth in the house shall wash his clothes; and he that eateth in the house shall wash his clothes.

{{font|size=smaller|color=#0000FF|70}} And if the priest shall come in, and look upon it, and, behold, the plague hath not spread in the house, after the house was plaistered: 

{{font|size=smaller|color=#0000FF|71}} Then the priest shall pronounce the house clean, because the plague is healed.

{{font|size=smaller|color=#0000FF|72}} And he shall take to cleanse the house two birds, and cedar wood, and scarlet, and hyssop:

{{font|size=smaller|color=#0000FF|73}} And he shall kill the one of the birds in an earthen vessel over running water:

{{font|size=smaller|color=#0000FF|74}} And he shall take the cedar wood, and the hyssop, and the scarlet, and the living bird, 

{{font|size=smaller|color=#0000FF|75}} And shall take the cedar wood, and the hyssop, and the scarlet, and the living bird, and dip them in the blood of the slain bird, and in the running water, and sprinkle the house seven times:

{{font|size=smaller|color=#0000FF|76}} And he shall cleanse the house with the blood of the bird, and with the running water, 

{{font|size=smaller|color=#0000FF|77}} And with the living bird, and with the cedar wood, and with the hyssop, and with the scarlet:

{{font|size=smaller|color=#0000FF|78}} But he shall let go the living bird out of the city into the open fields, 

{{font|size=smaller|color=#0000FF|79}} And make an atonement for the house: and it shall be clean.

{{font|size=smaller|color=#0000FF|80}} This is the law for all manner of plague of leprosy, and scall,

{{font|size=smaller|color=#0000FF|81}} And for the leprosy of a garment, and of a house,

{{font|size=smaller|color=#0000FF|82}} And for a rising, and for a scab, and for a bright spot:

{{font|size=smaller|color=#0000FF|83}} To teach when it is unclean, and when it is clean: this is the law of leprosy.

== The Order of Blessing ==
:''(based on Numbers 6:22-27)''

{{font|size=smaller|color=#0000FF|1}} On this wise ye shall bless the children of Israel, saying unto them,

{{font|size=smaller|color=#0000FF|2}} The LORD bless thee, and keep thee:

{{font|size=smaller|color=#0000FF|3}} The LORD make his face shine upon thee, and be gracious unto thee:

{{font|size=smaller|color=#0000FF|4}} The LORD lift up his countenance upon thee, and give thee peace.

{{font|size=smaller|color=#0000FF|5}} And they shall put the name of the LORD upon the children of Israel, and he will bless them.

[[Category:Documentary hypothesis]]