<[[Bible, English, King James, According to the documentary hypothesis]] | [[Bible, English, King James, Documentary Hypothesis, Deuteronomist source|Deuteronomist source]] | [[Bible, English, King James, Documentary Hypothesis, Deuteronomist source, First Deuteronomist Version|First Edition (Dtr1)]]

According to the [[w:documentary hypothesis|documentary hypothesis]], the [[w:Torah|Torah]] is composed from a number of originally independant sources joined by a [[w:redaction|redactor]]. One of these supposed sources is named the [[w:Deuteronomist|"Deuteronomist"]], due to it composing the vast majority of the text of [[w:Deuteronomy|Deuteronomy]]. Under the usual form of the hypothesis, the deuteronomist text is believed to have come in two editions, the earlier one, known as "Dtr1", being written around the time of king [[w:Josiah|Josiah]] by someone from the same circle as [[w:Jeremiah|Jeremiah]].

Though considered to have been written as a coherent work by a single author, the text can be broken down into a number of components, including a list of curses to be shouted by priests from Mount [[w:Ebal|Ebal]], occuring at deuteronomy 27:15-26. The list of curses may originate in an oral tradition, and appears to exhibit a connection to the [[w:Ten commandments|Ten commandments]].

''The numbering does not necessarily reflect that in the original in any way, but is simply present for ease of reference for the modern reader''

== Curses for Mount Ebal ==

{{font|size=smaller|color=#0000FF|1}} Cursed be the man that maketh any graven or molten image, an abomination unto the LORD,

:{{font|size=smaller|color=#0000FF|i}} The work of the hands of the craftsman, and putteth it in a secret place.

:{{font|size=smaller|color=#0000FF|ii}} And all the people shall answer and say, Amen.

{{font|size=smaller|color=#0000FF|2}} Cursed be he that setteth light by his father or his mother. And all the people shall say, Amen.

{{font|size=smaller|color=#0000FF|3}} Cursed be he that removeth his neighbour's landmark. And all the people shall say, Amen.

{{font|size=smaller|color=#0000FF|4}} Cursed be he that maketh the blind to wander out of the way. And all the people shall say, Amen.

{{font|size=smaller|color=#0000FF|5}} Cursed be he that perverteth the judgment of the stranger, fatherless, and widow. And all the people shall say, Amen.

{{font|size=smaller|color=#0000FF|6}} Cursed be he that lieth with his father's wife; because he uncovereth his father's skirt. And all the people shall say, Amen.

{{font|size=smaller|color=#0000FF|7}} Cursed be he that lieth with any manner of beast. And all the people shall say, Amen.

{{font|size=smaller|color=#0000FF|8}} Cursed be he that lieth with his sister, the daughter of his father, or the daughter of his mother. And all the people shall say, Amen.

{{font|size=smaller|color=#0000FF|9}} Cursed be he that lieth with his mother in law. And all the people shall say, Amen.

{{font|size=smaller|color=#0000FF|10}} Cursed be he that smiteth his neighbour secretly. And all the people shall say, Amen.

{{font|size=smaller|color=#0000FF|11}} Cursed be he that taketh reward to slay an innocent person. And all the people shall say, Amen.

{{font|size=smaller|color=#0000FF|12}} Cursed be he that confirmeth not all the words of this law to do them. And all the people shall say, Amen.

[[Category:Documentary hypothesis]]