<[[Bible, English, King James, According to the documentary hypothesis]]

The [[w:stations list|stations list]] is a text reconstructed by joining together small scattered parts of the [[w:torah|torah]], mostly from [[w:Book of Numbers|Numbers]], but also from [[w:Exodus|Exodus]]. In the [[w:documentary hypothesis|documentary hypothesis]], it is believed to have been used by the [[w:Torah redactor|redactor]] of the torah, to cover the joins between the redactor's main source texts.

There are two versions of the text, the first is the one that is scattered throughout Numbers and Exodus, the second is found complete (with minor interruptions) at Numbers 33:1-3a, 33:5-37, 33:41-49. 

''The numbering and sections exist only for the ease of modern readers, and do not reflect in any way any such numbering or partitioning in the original text''

== Version 1 ==

===Part 1===

{{font|size=smaller|color=#0000FF|1}} And the children of Israel journeyed from Rameses to Succoth, 

{{font|size=smaller|color=#0000FF|2}} And they took their journey from Succoth, and encamped in Etham, in the edge of the wilderness.

{{font|size=smaller|color=#0000FF|3}} So Moses brought Israel from the Red sea, and they went out into the wilderness of Shur; 

{{font|size=smaller|color=#0000FF|4}} And they came to Elim, where were twelve wells of water, and threescore and ten palm trees: and they encamped there by the waters.

{{font|size=smaller|color=#0000FF|5}} And they took their journey from Elim, and all the congregation of the children of Israel came unto the wilderness of Sin, which is between Elim and Sinai, on the fifteenth day of the second month after their departing out of the land of Egypt.

{{font|size=smaller|color=#0000FF|6}} And all the congregation of the children of Israel journeyed from the wilderness of Sin, after their journeys, according to the commandment of the LORD, and pitched in Rephidim: and there was no water for the people to drink.

{{font|size=smaller|color=#0000FF|7}} For they were departed from Rephidim, and were come to the desert of Sinai, and had pitched in the wilderness;

=== Part 2 ===

{{font|size=smaller|color=#0000FF|1}} And they first took their journey according to the commandment of the LORD by the hand of Moses.

{{font|size=smaller|color=#0000FF|2}} Thus were the journeyings of the children of Israel according to their armies, when they set forward.

=== Part 3 ===
 
{{font|size=smaller|color=#0000FF|1}} Then came the children of Israel, even the whole congregation, into the desert of Zin in the first month

{{font|size=smaller|color=#0000FF|2}} And the children of Israel, even the whole congregation, journeyed from Kadesh, and came unto mount Hor.

{{font|size=smaller|color=#0000FF|3}} And they journeyed from mount Hor by the way of the Red sea, to compass the land of Edom

{{font|size=smaller|color=#0000FF|4}} And the children of Israel set forward, and pitched in Oboth. 

{{font|size=smaller|color=#0000FF|5}} And they journeyed from Oboth, and pitched at Ijeabarim, in the wilderness which is before Moab, toward the sunrising.

{{font|size=smaller|color=#0000FF|6}} From thence they removed, and pitched in the valley of Zared.

{{font|size=smaller|color=#0000FF|7}} From thence they removed, and pitched on the other side of Arnon, which is in the wilderness that cometh out of the coasts of the Amorites: for Arnon is the border of Moab, between Moab and the Amorites.

{{font|size=smaller|color=#0000FF|8}} And from thence they went to Beer: that is the well.

{{font|size=smaller|color=#0000FF|9}} And from the wilderness they went to Mattanah: 

{{font|size=smaller|color=#0000FF|10}} And from Mattanah to Nahaliel: and from Nahaliel to Bamoth:

{{font|size=smaller|color=#0000FF|11}} And from Bamoth in the valley, that is in the country of Moab, to the top of Pisgah, which looketh toward Jeshimon.

{{font|size=smaller|color=#0000FF|12}} And the children of Israel set forward, and pitched in the plains of Moab on this side Jordan by Jericho.

== Version 2 ==

{{font|size=smaller|color=#0000FF|1}} These are the journeys of the children of Israel, which went forth out of the land of Egypt with their armies under the hand of Moses and Aaron.

{{font|size=smaller|color=#0000FF|2}} And Moses wrote their goings out according to their journeys by the commandment of the LORD: and these are their journeys according to their goings out.

{{font|size=smaller|color=#0000FF|3}} And they departed from Rameses in the first month, on the fifteenth day of the first month; 

{{font|size=smaller|color=#0000FF|4}} And the children of Israel removed from Rameses, and pitched in Succoth.

{{font|size=smaller|color=#0000FF|5}} And they departed from Succoth, and pitched in Etham, which is in the edge of the wilderness.

{{font|size=smaller|color=#0000FF|6}} And they removed from Etham, and turned again unto Pihahiroth, which is before Baalzephon: and they pitched before Migdol.

{{font|size=smaller|color=#0000FF|7}} And they departed from before Pihahiroth, and passed through the midst of the sea into the wilderness, and went three days' journey in the wilderness of Etham, and pitched in Marah.

{{font|size=smaller|color=#0000FF|8}} And they removed from Marah, and came unto Elim: and in Elim were twelve fountains of water, and threescore and ten palm trees; and they pitched there.

{{font|size=smaller|color=#0000FF|9}} And they removed from Elim, and encamped by the Red sea.

{{font|size=smaller|color=#0000FF|10}} And they removed from the Red sea, and encamped in the wilderness of Sin.

{{font|size=smaller|color=#0000FF|11}} And they took their journey out of the wilderness of Sin, and encamped in Dophkah.

{{font|size=smaller|color=#0000FF|12}} And they departed from Dophkah, and encamped in Alush. 

{{font|size=smaller|color=#0000FF|13}} And they removed from Alush, and encamped at Rephidim, where was no water for the people to drink.

{{font|size=smaller|color=#0000FF|14}} And they departed from Rephidim, and pitched in the wilderness of Sinai.

{{font|size=smaller|color=#0000FF|15}} And they removed from the desert of Sinai, and pitched at Kibrothhattaavah.

{{font|size=smaller|color=#0000FF|16}} And they departed from Kibrothhattaavah, and encamped at Hazeroth.

{{font|size=smaller|color=#0000FF|17}} And they departed from Hazeroth, and pitched in Rithmah.

{{font|size=smaller|color=#0000FF|18}} And they departed from Rithmah, and pitched at Rimmonparez.

{{font|size=smaller|color=#0000FF|19}} And they departed from Rimmonparez, and pitched in Libnah.

{{font|size=smaller|color=#0000FF|20}} And they removed from Libnah, and pitched at Rissah.

{{font|size=smaller|color=#0000FF|21}} And they journeyed from Rissah, and pitched in Kehelathah.

{{font|size=smaller|color=#0000FF|22}} And they went from Kehelathah, and pitched in mount Shapher.

{{font|size=smaller|color=#0000FF|23}} And they removed from mount Shapher, and encamped in Haradah.

{{font|size=smaller|color=#0000FF|24}} And they removed from Haradah, and pitched in Makheloth.

{{font|size=smaller|color=#0000FF|25}} And they removed from Makheloth, and encamped at Tahath.

{{font|size=smaller|color=#0000FF|26}} And they departed from Tahath, and pitched at Tarah.

{{font|size=smaller|color=#0000FF|27}} And they removed from Tarah, and pitched in Mithcah.

{{font|size=smaller|color=#0000FF|28}} And they went from Mithcah, and pitched in Hashmonah.

{{font|size=smaller|color=#0000FF|29}} And they departed from Hashmonah, and encamped at Moseroth.

{{font|size=smaller|color=#0000FF|30}} And they departed from Moseroth, and pitched in Benejaakan.

{{font|size=smaller|color=#0000FF|31}} And they removed from Benejaakan, and encamped at Horhagidgad.

{{font|size=smaller|color=#0000FF|32}} And they went from Horhagidgad, and pitched in Jotbathah.

{{font|size=smaller|color=#0000FF|33}} And they removed from Jotbathah, and encamped at Ebronah.

{{font|size=smaller|color=#0000FF|34}} And they departed from Ebronah, and encamped at Eziongaber.

{{font|size=smaller|color=#0000FF|35}} And they removed from Eziongaber, and pitched in the wilderness of Zin, which is Kadesh.

{{font|size=smaller|color=#0000FF|36}} And they removed from Kadesh, and pitched in mount Hor, in the edge of the land of Edom.

{{font|size=smaller|color=#0000FF|37}} And they departed from mount Hor, and pitched in Zalmonah.

{{font|size=smaller|color=#0000FF|38}} And they departed from Zalmonah, and pitched in Punon.

{{font|size=smaller|color=#0000FF|39}} And they departed from Punon, and pitched in Oboth.

{{font|size=smaller|color=#0000FF|40}} And they departed from Oboth, and pitched in Ijeabarim, in the border of Moab.

{{font|size=smaller|color=#0000FF|41}} And they departed from Iim, and pitched in Dibongad. 

{{font|size=smaller|color=#0000FF|42}} And they removed from Dibongad, and encamped in Almondiblathaim.

{{font|size=smaller|color=#0000FF|43}} And they removed from Almondiblathaim, and pitched in the mountains of Abarim, before Nebo.

{{font|size=smaller|color=#0000FF|44}} And they departed from the mountains of Abarim, and pitched in the plains of Moab by Jordan near Jericho.

{{font|size=smaller|color=#0000FF|45}} And they pitched by Jordan, from Bethjesimoth even unto Abelshittim in the plains of Moab.

==Version 1 superimposed on Version 2==

===Introduction===
There follows both texts superimposed
*Text only present in Version 1 is highlighted in {{font|color=#008800|green}}
*Text only present in Version 2 is highlighted in {{font|color=#888888|grey}}
*Text present in Version 1 that corresponds directly with text in Version 2 is highlighted in black

The versions sometimes refer to the same locations by different terms:
*'''Nahaliel''' translates as "blessed stream" and is a tributary of the river ''Arnon''. According to version 2, heading up the tributary leads to '''Almondiblathaim'''.
*'''Bamoth''' translates as "high places", i.e. '''mountains'''
*'''Ijeabirim''' translates as "mounds of Abirim", and was abbreviated as '''iim''', meaning "mounds"
*The location at '''the other side of Arnon''' is given in Version 1 as '''Dibongad'''
*'''Nebo''' is a mountain, one of whose peaks is called '''Pisgah''' (it is referred to by both names, in Deuteronomy, in the same verse)

===The text===
{{font|size=smaller|color=#0000FF|1}}{{font|color=#000000| Thus were the journeyings of the children of Israel, }}{{font|color=#888888|which went forth out of the land of Egypt }}{{font|color=#000000|according to their armies, when they set forward by the hand of Moses }}{{font|color=#888888|and Aaron.}}

{{font|size=smaller|color=#0000FF|2}}{{font|color=#888888| And Moses wrote their goings out }}{{font|color=#000000|according to }}{{font|color=#888888|their journeys by }}{{font|color=#000000|the commandment of the LORD: }}{{font|color=#888888|and these are their journeys according to their goings out.}}

{{font|size=smaller|color=#0000FF|3}}{{font|color=#888888| And they departed from Rameses in the first month, on the fifteenth day of the first month; }}

{{font|size=smaller|color=#0000FF|4}}{{font|color=#000000| And the children of Israel journeyed from Rameses to Succoth, }}

{{font|size=smaller|color=#0000FF|5}}{{font|color=#000000| And they took their journey from Succoth, and encamped in Etham, in the edge of the wilderness.}}

{{font|size=smaller|color=#0000FF|6}}{{font|color=#888888| And they removed from Etham, and turned again unto Pihahiroth, which is before Baalzephon: and they pitched before Migdol.}}

{{font|size=smaller|color=#0000FF|7}}{{font|color=#888888| And they departed from before Pihahiroth, and }}{{font|color=#008800|So Moses brought Israel}}{{font|color=#000000| from the Red sea and they went out into the wilderness }}{{font|color=#008800|of Shur; }}{{font|color=#888888|and went three days' journey in the wilderness of Etham, and pitched in Marah.}}

{{font|size=smaller|color=#0000FF|8}}{{font|color=#888888| And they removed from Marah, }}{{font|color=#000000|And they came to Elim, where were twelve wells of water, and threescore and ten palm trees: and they encamped there }}{{font|color=#008800|by the waters.}}

{{font|size=smaller|color=#0000FF|9}}{{font|color=#000000| And they took their journey from Elim, }}{{font|color=#888888|and encamped by the Red sea.}}

{{font|size=smaller|color=#0000FF|10}}{{font|color=#888888| And they removed from the Red sea, }}{{font|color=#000000|and all the congregation of the children of Israel came unto the wilderness of Sin, }}{{font|color=#008800|which is between Elim and Sinai, on the fifteenth day of the second month after their departing out of the land of Egypt.}}

{{font|size=smaller|color=#0000FF|11}}{{font|color=#000000| And all the congregation of the children of Israel journeyed from the wilderness of Sin, }}{{font|color=#008800|after their journeys, according to the commandment of the LORD, }}{{font|color=#888888|and encamped in Dophkah.}}

{{font|size=smaller|color=#0000FF|12}}{{font|color=#888888| And they departed from Dophkah, and encamped in Alush. }}

{{font|size=smaller|color=#0000FF|13}}{{font|color=#888888| And they removed from Alush, }}{{font|color=#000000|and pitched in Rephidim: and there was no water for the people to drink.}}

{{font|size=smaller|color=#0000FF|14}}{{font|color=#000000| For they were departed from Rephidim, and were come to the desert of Sinai, and had pitched in the wilderness;.}}

{{font|size=smaller|color=#0000FF|15}}{{font|color=#888888| And they removed from the desert of Sinai, and pitched at Kibrothhattaavah.}}

{{font|size=smaller|color=#0000FF|16}}{{font|color=#888888| And they departed from Kibrothhattaavah, and encamped at Hazeroth.}}

{{font|size=smaller|color=#0000FF|17}}{{font|color=#888888| And they departed from Hazeroth, and pitched in Rithmah.}}

{{font|size=smaller|color=#0000FF|18}}{{font|color=#888888| And they departed from Rithmah, and pitched at Rimmonparez.}}

{{font|size=smaller|color=#0000FF|19}}{{font|color=#888888| And they departed from Rimmonparez, and pitched in Libnah.}}

{{font|size=smaller|color=#0000FF|20}}{{font|color=#888888| And they removed from Libnah, and pitched at Rissah.}}

{{font|size=smaller|color=#0000FF|21}}{{font|color=#888888| And they journeyed from Rissah, and pitched in Kehelathah.}}

{{font|size=smaller|color=#0000FF|22}}{{font|color=#888888| And they went from Kehelathah, and pitched in mount Shapher.}}

{{font|size=smaller|color=#0000FF|23}}{{font|color=#888888| And they removed from mount Shapher, and encamped in Haradah.}}

{{font|size=smaller|color=#0000FF|24}}{{font|color=#888888| And they removed from Haradah, and pitched in Makheloth.}}

{{font|size=smaller|color=#0000FF|25}}{{font|color=#888888| And they removed from Makheloth, and encamped at Tahath.}}

{{font|size=smaller|color=#0000FF|26}}{{font|color=#888888| And they departed from Tahath, and pitched at Tarah.}}

{{font|size=smaller|color=#0000FF|27}}{{font|color=#888888| And they removed from Tarah, and pitched in Mithcah.}}

{{font|size=smaller|color=#0000FF|28}}{{font|color=#888888| And they went from Mithcah, and pitched in Hashmonah.}}

{{font|size=smaller|color=#0000FF|29}}{{font|color=#888888| And they departed from Hashmonah, and encamped at Moseroth.}}

{{font|size=smaller|color=#0000FF|30}}{{font|color=#888888| And they departed from Moseroth, and pitched in Benejaakan.}}

{{font|size=smaller|color=#0000FF|31}}{{font|color=#888888| And they removed from Benejaakan, and encamped at Horhagidgad.}}

{{font|size=smaller|color=#0000FF|32}}{{font|color=#888888| And they went from Horhagidgad, and pitched in Jotbathah.}}

{{font|size=smaller|color=#0000FF|33}}{{font|color=#888888| And they removed from Jotbathah, and encamped at Ebronah.}}

{{font|size=smaller|color=#0000FF|34}}{{font|color=#888888| And they departed from Ebronah, and encamped at Eziongaber.}}

{{font|size=smaller|color=#0000FF|35}}{{font|color=#888888| And they removed from Eziongaber, }}{{font|color=#000000|then came the children of Israel, even the whole congregation, into the desert of Zin }}{{font|color=#008800|in the first month, }}{{font|color=#888888|which is Kadesh.}}

{{font|size=smaller|color=#0000FF|36}}{{font|color=#000000| And the children of Israel, even the whole congregation, journeyed from Kadesh, and came unto mount Hor, }}{{font|color=#888888|in the edge of the land of Edom.}}

{{font|size=smaller|color=#0000FF|37}}{{font|color=#000000| And they journeyed from mount Hor }}{{font|color=#008800|by the way of the Red sea, to compass the land of Edom}}{{font|color=#888888|, and pitched in Zalmonah.}}

{{font|size=smaller|color=#0000FF|38}}{{font|color=#888888| And they departed from Zalmonah, and pitched in Punon.}}

{{font|size=smaller|color=#0000FF|39}}{{font|color=#888888| And they departed from Punon, }}{{font|color=#008800|And the children of Israel set forward, }}{{font|color=#000000|and pitched in Oboth.}}

{{font|size=smaller|color=#0000FF|40}}{{font|color=#000000| And they journeyed from Oboth, and pitched at Ijeabarim, in the wilderness which is before Moab, }}{{font|color=#008800|toward the sunrising}}

{{font|size=smaller|color=#0000FF|41}}{{font|color=#000000| From thence they removed, }}{{font|color=#008800|and pitched in the valley of Zared.}}

{{font|size=smaller|color=#0000FF|42}}{{font|color=#008800| From thence they removed, }}{{font|color=#000000|and pitched on the other side of Arnon, }}{{font|color=#008800|which is in the wilderness that cometh out of the coasts of the Amorites: for Arnon is the border of Moab, between Moab and the Amorites. }}

{{font|size=smaller|color=#0000FF|43}}{{font|color=#000000| And from thence }}{{font|color=#008800|they went to Beer: that is the well, And from the wilderness they went to Mattanah:}}

{{font|size=smaller|color=#0000FF|44}}{{font|color=#008800| And from Mattanah }}{{font|color=#000000|to Nahaliel:}}

{{font|size=smaller|color=#0000FF|45}}{{font|color=#000000| And from Nahaliel to Bamoth }}{{font|color=#888888|of Abarim: }}{{font|color=#000000|And from Bamoth }}{{font|color=#008800|in the valley, that is in the country of Moab, }}{{font|color=#000000|to }}{{font|color=#008800|the top of }}{{font|color=#000000|Pisgah.}}

{{font|size=smaller|color=#0000FF|46}}{{font|color=#000000| And the children of Israel set forward }}{{font|color=#888888|from the mountains of Abarim}}{{font|color=#000000|, and pitched on this side Jordan by Jericho.}}

{{font|size=smaller|color=#0000FF|47}}{{font|color=#888888| And they pitched by Jordan, }}{{font|color=#000000|which looketh toward Jeshimon }}{{font|color=#888888|even unto Abelshittim }}{{font|color=#000000|in the plains of Moab.}}

[[Category:Documentary hypothesis]]